#371: 06-20-03 ASTRAZENECA PHARMACEUTICALS LP PLEADS GUILTY  TO HEALTHCARE CRIME; COMPANY AGREES TO PAY $355 MILLION TO SETTLE CHARGES 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
FRIDAY, JUNE 20, 2003
WWW.USDOJ.GOV

CIV 
(302) 573-6277

ASTRAZENECA PHARMACEUTICALS LP PLEADS GUILTY 
TO HEALTHCARE CRIME; COMPANY AGREES TO PAY
$355 MILLION TO SETTLE CHARGES

The United States Attorney’s Office for the District of Delaware, the 
Department of Health and Human Services Acting Principal Deputy Inspector 
General Dara Corrigan, Terrell L. Vermillion, Director, Office of Criminal 
Investigations, Food & Drug Administration, and SAIC Edward T. Bradley of the 
Northeast Field Office for the Defense Criminal Investigative Service 
announced that AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP (“AstraZeneca”), a major 
pharmaceutical manufacturer headquartered in Wilmington, Delaware, today 
pleaded guilty in federal district court in Wilmington, Delaware to a 
healthcare crime and agreed to pay $355,000,000 to resolve criminal charges 
and civil liabilities in connection with its drug pricing and marketing 
practices with regard to Zoladex, a drug sold by AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals 
LP and used primarily for the treatment of prostate cancer. The general 
components of the global agreement are as follows: 

AstraZeneca pleaded guilty to conspiring to violate the Prescription Drug 
Marketing Act (“PDMA”) by causing to be submitted claims for payment for the 
prescription of Zoladex which had been provided as free samples to urologists. 
This criminal conduct caused losses of $39,920,098 to Medicare, Medicaid and 
other federally funded insurance programs. As part of the plea agreement, 
AstraZeneca agreed to pay a $63,872,156 criminal fine; 

AstraZeneca agreed to settle its federal civil False Claim Act liabilities and 
to pay the U.S. government $266,127,844 to resolve allegations that the 
company caused false and fraudulent claims to be filed with the Medicare, 
TriCare, Department of Defense and Railroad Retirement Board Medicare programs 
as a result of AstraZeneca’s fraudulent drug pricing schemes and sales and 
marketing misconduct; 

AstraZeneca agreed to settle its civil liabilities to the Medicaid program by 
paying to the United States and the states a total of $24,900,000 to resolve 
allegations that it caused false and fraudulent claims to be filed with the 
states as a result of its drug pricing and marketing misconduct and that it 
failed to provide the state Medicaid programs AstraZeneca’s best price for 
those drugs as required by law. The National Association of Medicaid Fraud 
Control Units has reached an agreement in principle to settle the state 
portion of these liabilities on behalf of the state Attorneys General; and 

AstraZeneca has agreed to comply with the terms of a corporate integrity 
agreement which ensures, among other things, that AstraZeneca will report to 
the Medicare and Medicaid programs the average sale price for drugs reimbursed 
by those programs and will promote, through internal training and other 
programs and policies, marketing and sales practices that are in full 
compliance with the law. 

Zoladex is marketed by AstraZeneca primarily for the treatment of prostate 
cancer, as is the drug Lupron which is produced by TAP Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 
(“TAP”). In October 2001, TAP agreed to pay $875,000,000 to resolve civil and 
criminal liabilities in connection with its pricing and marketing of Lupron. 

While Medicare does not pay for most drugs needed by Medicare beneficiaries, 
Medicare covers some drugs, such as Zoladex, that must be injected under the 
supervision of a physician. 

In documents filed with this case, the United States alleged that from January 
1991 through December 31, 2002, Astra Zeneca engaged in the following conduct 
involving the marketing, sale and pricing of Zoladex for the treatment of 
prostate cancer: 

(i) Employees of AstraZeneca provided thousands of free samples of Zoladex to 
physicians knowing and expecting that certain of those physicians would 
prescribe and administer the free drug samples to their patients and 
thereafter bill those free samples to the patients and to Medicare, Medicaid, 
and other federally funded insurance programs; 

(ii) In order to induce certain physicians, physicians’ practices, and others 
to purchase Zoladex, AstraZeneca offered and paid illegal remuneration in 
various forms including free Zoladex, unrestricted educational grants, 
business assistance grants and services, travel and entertainment, consulting 
services, and honoraria; 

(iii)Also in order to induce physicians to purchase Zoladex, AstraZeneca 
marketed a “Return-to-Practice” program to physicians. This Return-to-Practice 
program consisted of inflating the Average Wholesale Price (“AWP”) used by 
Medicare and others for reimbursement of the drug , deeply discounting the 
price paid by physicians to AstraZeneca for the drug (“the discounted price”), 
and marketing the spread between the AWP and the discounted price to 
physicians as additional profit to be returned to the physician’s practice 
from Medicare reimbursements for Zoladex; 

 (iv) AstraZeneca set the AWP for Zoladex at levels far higher than the 
majority of its physician customers actually paid for the drug. As a result, 
AstraZeneca’s customers received reimbursement from Medicare and state 
Medicaid programs and others at levels significantly higher than the 
physicians’ actual costs or the wholesalers’ average price; and 

(v) AstraZeneca misreported and underpaid its Medicaid rebates for Zoladex 
used for treatment of prostate cancer, i.e., the amounts that it owed to the 
states under the federal Medicaid Rebate Program. AstraZeneca was generally 
required on a quarterly basis to rebate to each state Medicaid program the 
difference between the Average Manufacturer Price (“AMP”) and its “Best 
Price”. AstraZeneca falsely reported the Best Price for Zoladex used for 
treatment of prostate cancer because AstraZeneca calculated its Best Prices 
for Zoladex without accounting for off-invoice price concessions provided in 
various forms including cash discounts in the form of grants, services and 
free goods contingent on any purchase requirement. 

The investigation commenced after the filing of a civil False Claim Act suit 
by Douglas Durand who was employed as the Vice President of Sales for TAP 
Pharmaceutical Products, Inc. The civil False Claims Act allows for private 
individuals like Durand to file a whistleblower suit to bring the government 
information about wrongdoing. Where persons submit, cause others to submit, or 
conspire to submit false or fraudulent claims to the United States government, 
the government is entitled to recover treble damages and $5,500 to $11,000 for 
each false or fraudulent claim. If the government is successful in resolving 
or litigating its claims, the whistleblower may share in the recovery by 
receiving from 15 to 25% of the amount recovered. As part of this settlement, 
Durand will receive a 17% share of the civil recovery pursuant to the False 
Claims Act whistleblower provisions. This amounts to approximately $47.5 
million. 

Prior to today’s guilty plea by AstraZeneca, three physicians have been 
charged, and two have pleaded guilty, for their role in conspiring to bill for 
Zoladex samples. Dr. Saad Antoun, a urologist practicing in Holmdel, New 
Jersey, was charged on January 15, 2002, and pleaded guilty to conspiracy on 
September 18, 2002. Dr. Stanley Hopkins, a urologist practicing in Boca Raton, 
Florida, was charged on September 30, 2002, and pleaded guilty to conspiracy 
on December 17, 2002. Dr. Robert Berkman, a urologist practicing in Columbus, 
Ohio, was charged on May 19, 2003. 

“This prosecution of a pharmaceutical company demonstrates our resolve to 
protect federal health insurance programs when they are abused to enrich drug 
companies and doctors. We will pursue those whose criminal conduct imposes 
enormous expense on trust funds that the taxpayers fund to protect and 
preserve the health of our elderly, our poor, our military, and its 
dependents.” said Associate Attorney General Robert D. McCallum, Jr. of the 
United States Department of Justice. 

"The public has been well served by the investigators who uncovered the extent 
of this scheme and brought it to an end," said Commissioner of Food and Drugs 
Mark B. McClellan, M.D., Ph.D. "FDA will not tolerate criminal conduct that 
exploits patients, plunders the national treasury, and adds to the cost of 
health care." 

“Today's settlement shows that the federal government is holding the 
pharmaceutical industry strictly accountable for improper conduct as well as 
those who conduct business with them,” Department of Health and Human Services 
Acting Principal Deputy Inspector General Dara Corrigan stated. “The Office of 
Inspector General, along with our partners, will not tolerate this type of 
behavior, and we will continue to investigate allegations of illegal conduct 
concerning the pharmaceutical industry.” 

"Today's plea and settlement demonstrates our strong commitment to protecting 
the American public from corporate greed, in whatever form that it may occur", 
said SAC Bradley. "This commitment extends to all participants in the many 
healthcare systems in this country, including our brave service men and women 
and their dependents. This case sends a strong message to the pharmaceutical 
industry that fraudulent activity, such as the scheme perpetrated by 
AstraZeneca, will not be tolerated and will be investigated and prosecuted to 
the full extent of the law." 

The entire amount of the nearly $64 million criminal fine paid by AstraZeneca 
will go to the Department of Justice’s Crime Victims Fund. The Fund was 
established in 1984 by the Victims of Crime Act (“VOCA”) and serves as a major 
funding source for victim services throughout the country. Victims of federal 
as well as state crimes are eligible to receive VOCA-funded services, and 
state Assistance programs use VOCA funds to provide or contract for services 
to victims of rape, drunk driving, child abuse, domestic violence, homicide, 
and other crimes. 

The investigation has been conducted by the Office of Inspector General for 
the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the Office of Criminal 
Investigations for the Food and Drug Administration, the Defense Criminal 
Investigative Service and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. On the criminal 
side, the investigation and prosecution are being handled by Assistant U.S. 
Attorney Beth Moskow-Schnoll. On the civil side, the investigation and 
prosecution are being handled by Assistant U.S. Attorney Virginia Gibson. 

Press contact: Beth Moskow-Schnoll, (302) 573-6277 x 130. 

###
03-371