Abercrombie & Fitch Faces Lawsuit Over Muslim Headscarf - TIME

 

Home
U.S.
Politics
World
Biz & Tech
Health & Science
Entertainment
Travel
People
Photos
Video
Best & Worst Lists
Magazine

 Business & Tech

ADD TIME NEWS

 My Yahoo!
 My Google 
Netvibes
 My AOL 
RSS Feed
See all feeds

NEWSLETTERS

Main
Best iPhone Apps
Global Business
Small Business
Curious Capitalist
Nerd World
The Cheapskate Blog
Money & Main Street
Videos

SEARCH TIME.COM

 
                      Full Archive

 
                      Covers

Abercrombie Faces a Muslim-Headscarf Lawsuit
By Sean Gregory Wednesday, Sep. 23, 2009

Najlah Feanny / Corbis

 

Print
Reprints

 Email

 
 
Twitter
LinkedIn

Facebook

MORE...

Add to my:

del.icio.us
Technorati
reddit
Google Bookmarks
Mixx
StumbleUpon

Blog this on:

TypePad
LiveJournal
Blogger

MySpace

  

Given the hyper-sexualized advertising that Abercrombie & Fitch has long
embraced, it is no surprise that the company encourages its employees to let
their hair down. But is the company practicing discrimination if it won't
hire a young woman who covers her head for religious reasons? Yes, according
to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. Last week the EEOC filed
suit against Abercrombie on behalf of Samantha Elauf, a 19-year-old
community college student from Tulsa, Okla., who is Muslim. The suit alleges that
Abercrombie "refused to hire Ms. Elauf because she wears a hijab, claiming
that the wearing of the headgear was prohibited by its Look Policy," or
employee dress code. The suit says that Abercrombie "failed to accommodate
her religious beliefs by making an exception to the Look Policy. These
actions constitute discrimination against Ms. Elauf on the basis of
religion." (See pictures of being Muslim in America.) 

Related
Audio

Host Katherine Lanpher talks with TIME healthcare writer Kate Pickert about young invincibles and the health care debate, and Justin Fox about why bonds aren't a sure bet
Download | Subscribe
 

Elauf, who had experience working in retail, interviewed for a
position at a Tulsa Abercrombie Kids store in June 2008. During the interview, she wore a black hijab, or headscarf, in line with Muslim
religious tradition. According to the EEOC, Elauf got word through a friend,
who worked in the store, that the headscarf cost her the job. The EEOC
alleges that during its investigation, Abercrombie & Fitch flatly told the
agency, in a position statement, that "under the Look Policy, associates must
wear clothing that is consistent with the Abercrombie brand, cannot wear
hats or other coverings, and cannot wear clothes that are the color
black." Elauf is suing for back pay and compensation related to emotional
pain and anxiety. "If these allegations are true," says Chuck Thornton,
deputy director of the ACLU of Oklahoma, "they are serious. In this day and
age, it's not acceptable. Certainly, a headscarf is part and parcel of the
Islamic experience." (Read "How to Reach Teens in a Recession? Ask Aéropostale.")
When contacted for a response, Abercrombie & Fitch issued the following
statement: "We cannot comment on pending litigation. We have a strong equal-opportunity policy, and we accommodate religious beliefs and practices when
possible. We are confident that the litigation of this matter will
demonstrate that we have followed the law in every respect."
Was Abercrombie & Fitch within its rights to enforce its dress code? Title
VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 prohibits religious discrimination. "It
shall be an unlawful employment practice for an employer to fail or refuse
to hire .... any individual ... because of such individual's race, color,
religion, sex or national origin," the law states. The key language, says
Stewart Schwab, an employment lawyer and dean of Cornell Law School, is
found in a 1972 amendment to Title VII. This amendment defined
"religion." It reads, "The term 'religion' includes all aspects of religious
observance and practice, as well as belief, unless an employer demonstrates
that he is unable to reasonably accommodate an employee's or prospective
employee's religious observance or practice without undue hardship on the
conduct of the employer's business." 
This case could hinge on a jury's interpretation of the phrase "undue
hardship." If Abercrombie & Fitch had made an exception of its Look Policy
for Elauf — a "reasonable accommodation" — would that move have hurt the Abercrombie brand? On the surface, that argument seems specious, at best. Would shoppers at that Abercrombie Kids store have been so jarred by the hijab that they wouldn't have bought the company's jeans? If the company makes that case, it doesn't think much of the religious tolerance of the good folks of Oklahoma. (Read "Abercrombie & Fitch: Worst Recession Brand?")
Still, this case is far from a lock for Elauf. "You can't give a blanket
statement that this clearly violates her rights," says Schwab. "Employers
often win cases involving dress codes. There's a general feeling that
employers are entitled to set an image in their stores." If a company sells
sex — you can sometimes find a shirtless male model hanging out in front of
Abercrombie stores — let's face it, head coverings aren't ideal.
No matter how the suit turns out, Abercrombie & Fitch doesn't need another
headache. The company just announced more dismal sales figures: August
same-store sales declined 29%. In 2004, the EEOC sued Abercrombie for
limiting its hiring of minorities; that case was settled for $50 million. A
British woman sued the company for discrimination after Abercrombie's
management allegedly shunted her to the stockroom for wearing a cardigan to
cover her prosthetic arm. In August, a tribunal awarded her nearly $15,000.
The EEOC has also sued Hollister, a teen retailer owned by
Abercrombie, for allegedly firing a Pentecostal worker who asked to dress
more modestly. That case is still pending.
As for Elauf, she is under attorney's orders to keep quiet about the case.
But her grandfather, Ata Elauf, is clearly irked. "They put a wedge into her
Americanism," says Elauf. "She grew up here speaking the language, going to
school. Why did they do this? She's sort of confused."
Read "Brief History: Affirmative Action." 

Print
Reprints

 Email

 
 
Twitter
LinkedIn

Facebook

MORE...

Add to my:

del.icio.us
Technorati
reddit
Google Bookmarks
Mixx
StumbleUpon

Blog this on:

TypePad
LiveJournal
Blogger

MySpace

  

Most Popular »
Full List »

MOST READ
MOST EMAILED

Ahmadinejad Rejects Obama's Nuclear WarningHula Hoops: From Child's Play to Real ExerciseDetroit: The Death — and Possible Life — of a Great CityExclusive Interview: Gaddafi on Obama, Israel and IranGaddafi's Oddest Idea: Abolish SwitzerlandFast Antarctic Ice: Go, Speed Glacier, Go!
The Secrets Inside Your Dog's MindMad Man: Is Glenn Beck Bad for America?Seducing Olympia Snowe: The Key to Health ReformRio's Olympics Quest: Can It Handle the 2016 Games?

Hula Hoops: From Child's Play to Real ExerciseThe Secrets Inside Your Dog's MindDetroit: The Death — and Possible Life — of a Great CityExclusive Interview: Gaddafi on Obama, Israel and IranAhmadinejad Rejects Obama's Nuclear WarningGaddafi's Oddest Idea: Abolish SwitzerlandPrague: 10 Things to Do in 24 HoursCan a Mixed-Race Contestant Become a Chinese Idol?Seducing Olympia Snowe: The Key to Health ReformGiant Baby Born in Indonesian Hospital

Quotes of the Day »
Get & Share

"I suppose you could say that."
MICHAEL BLOOMBERG, New York City mayor, on whether flying by helicopter wastes energy; the self-portrayed national environment leader took a helicopter to a U2 concert in New Jersey on Thursday 

More Quotes »

 For use in rail of Articles page or Section Fronts pages.  Duplicate and change name as necesssary to distinguish. 

Time.com on Digg

Upcoming
Popular Today

POWERED BY digg

 

 

Top Stories on TIME.com

Can a Mixed-Race Contestant Become a Chinese Idol?
Ahead of Schedule, H1N1 Flu Season Arrives in the U.S.
Rio's Olympics Quest: Can It Handle the 2016 Games?

More on TIME.com »

Ahmadinejad Rejects Obama's Nuclear Warning
Government Distrust and a Dead Census Taker
Insider Selling At Toll Bros. Making Investors Skittish

Quotes of the Day »
Get & Share

"I suppose you could say that."
MICHAEL BLOOMBERG, New York City mayor, on whether flying by helicopter wastes energy; the self-portrayed national environment leader took a helicopter to a U2 concert in New Jersey on Thursday 

More Quotes »

Today in Pictures »

 Family 

More News

from CNN

Brain scans reveal what you've seen
Researcher converts his life into 'e-memory'
BlackBerry's stock plunges

from Huffington Post

Allen Stanford Hospitalized After Fight With Another Inmate
Chicago Cab Vomit Fee Would Be First Of Its Kind
Peter Diamandis: Launching Commercial Space Flight: Part Four -- Anousheh Ansari and Her $10 Million Purse

from Rotten Tomato

Friday Harvest: A Serious Man, Up in the Air, and more!
Weekly Ketchup: X-Men Producer Talks X4, New Mutants
Submit to the RT Show and Earn a Cool $100

from Life

G-20 Protests Turn Violent
An Anglo-Saxon Treasure Hoard
American Classic: Ford Mustang

 

Stay Connected with TIME.com
Learn More »

Subscribe to RSS Feeds
Sign Up for Newsletters
Add TIME Widgets
Read TIME Mobile on Your Phone
Become a Fan of TIME
Get TIME Twitter Updates

 

© 2009 Time Inc. All rights reserved | 
		Privacy Policy | 
		 RSS | 
		Newsletter | 
		TIME For Kids | 
		LIFE.com

Subscribe | 
		Contact Us | 
		Terms of Use | 
		Media Kit | 
		Reprints & Permissions | 
		Opinion Leaders Panel | 
		Help | 
		Site Map