About the Robert Bosch Stiftung | Robert Bosch Stiftung

      Skip to main content
    

Toggle navigation

Career

Press

Publications

Events

Search

Search

DEEN

What we do

The Support We Offer

who we are

Project search

Storys

 

About the Robert Bosch Stiftung
The Robert Bosch Stiftung is active in the areas of health, education, and global issues. Through its funding, it works for a just and sustainable future. The Foundation is rooted in the legacy of the entrepreneur and founder Robert Bosch. 

Michael FuchsIn BriefToday, around 170 people are employed at its Stuttgart and Berlin offices. The Robert Bosch Stiftung GmbH maintains its own facilities, develops innovative projects, and provides support at both the international and local level. It is active in Germany and Europe, in the Middle East, and in selected regions of Sub-Saharan Africa. The Foundation contributes findings from the projects it funds to the professional world and public debate.In the area of Health, the Foundation is committed to promoting a sustainable healthcare system that focuses more on people and their health literacy. With the Bosch Health Campus in Stuttgart, it has efficiently brought together care, research, education, and empowerment to benefit both patients and scientists. In its Education funding, the Foundation works to promote a fair, high-performing education system that is focused on the well-being of children and young people. In the Global Issues funding area, the Foundation works on major social challenges of our time. In particular, it addresses the issues of peace, inequality, climate change, democracy, migration and the immigration society.The Foundation supports interdisciplinary exchange between academia, politics and society as well as evidence-based political decision-making. With its fellowships, the Robert Bosch Academy enables leading figures from around the world to spend time working in Berlin, thus contributing to a network of international experts and opinion leaders. The Foundation is the sponsor of the Bosch Health Campus in Stuttgart. This includes the Robert Bosch Hospital, the Dr. Margarete Fischer-Bosch Institute of Clinical Pharmacology, the Robert Bosch Center for Tumor Diseases, and the Robert Bosch Center for Innovative Health. The Robert Bosch Stiftung is also a shareholder in an international school in Freiburg, the Robert Bosch College UWC, and the International Alumni Center (iac) in Berlin.The Foundation holds around 94 percent of the shares in Robert Bosch GmbH and is financed by its dividends. As a charitable foundation, it does not have any entrepreneurial activities. It has transferred the voting rights of the shares to Robert Bosch Industrietreuhand KG. Since its establishment in 1964, the Robert Bosch Stiftung has spent more than 2,5 billion euros on its charitable work.BackgroundIn 1964, the Bosch family's inherited shares in the company Robert Bosch GmbH were transferred to an estate - Vermögensverwaltung Bosch GmbH - that Robert Bosch had founded back in 1921. This was subsequently renamed Robert Bosch Stiftung GmbH (Robert Bosch Foundation) in 1969. The Foundation still holds about a 94 percent of Robert Bosch GmbH's capital stock.Robert Bosch - Entrepreneur, citizen and philanthropistThe Bosch ConstitutionThe Foundation exclusively and directly serves charitable purposes. As a shareholder of Robert Bosch GmbH the Foundation receives a proportion of the distributed dividends in the company. Given its status as a charitable institution the Foundation does not engage in corporate activity. The voting rights associated with its shares in Robert Bosch GmbH have been transferred to a trust, Robert Bosch Industrietreuhand KG.More about the constitutionDecision-Making BodiesThe decision-making bodies of the Robert Bosch Stiftung are its Partners' Meeting, the Board of Trustees, and the Management Board. Its charitable activities and the deployment of its resources are determined by the Board of Trustees, which members are also partners of the Foundation. These partner-members act as trustees and must step down at the age of 74. As directed by Robert Bosch, the Board of Trustees is made up of members of his family, as well as entrepreneurs and personalities from the public domain.Annual General Meeting and Board of TrusteesFoundation TodayAround 170 employees manage internal and external projects in Stuttgart and Berlin. Find out more about the charitable activities of the Robert Bosch Stiftung. It picks up on social issues at an early stage in three areas of support – and, with its projects, develops exemplary solutions for the future.What we do

Follow us

Linkedin

facebook

youtube

instagram

Sign up for the Foundation's newsletterEnter your e-mail hereSubmit registration

Recommend us:FacebookThreadsX (Twitter)RedditLinkedIn
        Via link
        Link copied

Contact

Privacy Statement

Legal Information