Airbnb Reportedly Paid a Rape Victim $7 Million for Silence on Settlement

			+ English		

		Close	

VICEEditions

						English 

						Bahasa Indonesia					

						Czech					

						Danish					

						Deutsch					

						Español					

						Français					

						Italiano					

						Nederlands					

						Polish					

						Portuguese					

						Română					

						Russian					

						Srpski					

						Swedish					

						Ελληνικά					

						عربي					

						日本語					

						한국어					

Open Menu
 

Close Menu
 

Magazine
News
Life
Tech
Munchies
Music
Waypoint
Shop
Members

Subscribe
Newsletters
Instagram
TikTok
YouTube

Google Discover

Google Top Posts

Video
Shop
Members

Facebook
Instagram
TikTok
Reddit
YouTube

Google Discover

Google Top Posts

Search

Culture
News
Tech
Munchies
Drugs
Music
Waypoint
Photography
Sex
Travel
Comedy
Entertainment

			News		

Airbnb Reportedly Paid a Rape Victim $7 Million for Silence on Settlement

	By Carter Sherman
June 16, 2021, 12:52pm

Share:
Click to share on X (Opens in new window)X
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)Facebook
Share using Native toolsShareCopied to clipboard

					Follow Us On Discover
					

					Make Us Preferred In Top Stories
					

Airbnb paid a woman $7 million after she was allegedly raped while she stayed at a New York property rented out through the massive platform in 2016, Bloomberg reported Tuesday.

In exchange for the payout, the woman agreed to not discuss the settlement “or imply responsibility or liability” on the part of Airbnb or the host of the property where she stayed, according to Bloomberg.

			Videos by VICE		

 

“In sexual assault cases, in the settlements we’ve reached, survivors can speak freely about their experiences,” Ben Breit, a spokesperson for Airbnb, told VICE News in an email. “Our safety team worked hard to support the survivor following the horrific attack. We proactively reached out to NYPD after the attack to offer our assistance for their investigation, and we helped get her into a hotel. The priority for our company and our executives was supporting the survivor and doing right by someone who had endured trauma.”

The man who allegedly raped the Airbnb guest in 2016, Junior Lee, has been charged with predatory sexual assault. When the guest returned from going out, Lee was waiting in the bathroom of the Airbnb property, Bloomberg reported. He allegedly held her at knifepoint.
Police later found keys to the Airbnb in Lee’s possession, Bloomberg reported. The woman and her friends had not needed to show identification to pick up their own keys to the Airbnb, as is common on the platform.

After the alleged assault, Airbnb got the woman a hotel, flew her mother in from Australia, flew both of them home, and offered to cover health care and counseling. The settlement was reached two years later.
Lee has pleaded not guilty and deemed mentally unfit; he’s now in custody. His lawyer declined to comment on the case to Bloomberg.

 

					Read Next				

					I Accidentally Uncovered a Nationwide Scam on Airbnb				

News of the eye-popping settlement emerged as part of a Bloomberg investigation into Airbnb’s efforts to keep guests and hosts safe, which found that Airbnb spends an average of $50 million per year in payouts to hosts and guests. (Airbnb told the outlet that many of its payouts deal with property damage.) The company also employs a roughly 100-strong “safety team” of workers who handle safety-related complaints. This team has carte blanche to spend whatever they need to help victims, allowing the company to shoot “the money cannon” at problems, as one former employee told Bloomberg. (Airbnb declined to discuss the team’s budget with Bloomberg.)
In any case, working on the safety team sounds like a dismal job: They’ve had to hire cleaners to get blood out of carpets, deal with hosts who find dismembered bodies, and help assault victims as they hide or run, Bloomberg reported. Until 2017, the year that the #MeToo movement began, payout agreements included clauses that “barred the recipient from talking about what had happened, making further requests for money, or suing the company,” according to Bloomberg, which cited inside sources. Now, that clause only “says recipients can’t discuss the terms of their settlement or imply that it’s an admission of wrongdoing.”
“We go the extra mile to ensure anyone impacted on our platform is taken care of,” Tara Bunch, Airbnb’s head of global operations, told Bloomberg. “We don’t really worry about the brand and image component. That stuff will take care of itself as long as you do the right thing.”

Tagged:Airbnb, rape, settlement, sexual assault, Tech, worldnews
Share:
Click to share on X (Opens in new window)X
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)Facebook
Share using Native toolsShareCopied to clipboard

MoreLike This

(BERTRAND GUAY/AFP via Getty Images)
Katt Williams Reveals How Prince Made Him Confident in Being Short
23 minutes ago

	By Caleb Catlin

Kelly Sullivan/Getty Images
Los Campesinos! Revealed Their 2025 Streaming Revenue, and the Data Is Eye-Opening
30 minutes ago

	By Lauren Boisvert

The Mystery Behind WWE’s Green Shirt Guy Is Finally Solved
43 minutes ago

	By Haley Miller

(Photo by Cindy Ord/Getty Images for Spotify)
‘I Think He Really Dives Into Character Really Well’: The Rapper Pusha T Would Want to Play Him in a Clipse Biopic
1 hour ago

	By Caleb Catlin

WWE via Getty Images
John Cena on Why He Doesn’t Regret His Heel Turn in WWE
2 hours ago

	By Haley Miller

Screenshot: Valve, Micron
Steam Users Dealt a Major Blow as PC Gaming Could Become “Too Expensive” in 2026, Report Says
2 hours ago

	By Brent Koepp

MoreFrom VICE

JB Lacroix/FilmMagic
Lily Allen Releases ‘West End Girl’ on Butt Plug-Shaped USB Drives: ‘For Data Storage Only’
2 hours ago

	By Lauren Boisvert

Screenshot: Illfonic
Haddonfield Looks Straight Out of the Movies in 2026’s Halloween Game Trailer
2 hours ago

	By Denny Connolly

The K-Pop x Vans Demon Hunters Collab Is Here to Possess Your Feet
2 hours ago

	By Ysolt Usigan

Hershey's Holiday Kisses (Credit: NoDerog/Getty Images)
The Best Stocking Stuffer Sweets for the Christmas Season
3 hours ago

	By Tatiana Tenreyro

VICE Media

Instagram
TikTok
YouTube

About
Accessibility
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Security Policy
Fulfillment Policy

	© 2025 VICE Digital Publishing, LLC

Thank for your puchase!

                            You have successfully purchased.
                        

OK

×

Add your account details

Next