Airbnb Faces Thousands of Sexual-Assault Claims Yearly: Report - Business Insider

 

 

Business Insider

 Subscribe
                

                  Newsletters
                

 

 

 

 

Search

Business

Strategy

Economy

Finance

Retail

Advertising

Careers

Media

Real Estate

Small Business

The Better Work Project

Personal Finance

 

Tech

Science

AI

Enterprise

Transportation

Startups

Innovation

 

Markets

Stocks

Indices

Commodities

Crypto

Currencies

ETFs

 

Lifestyle

Entertainment

Culture

Travel

Food

Health

Parenting

 

Politics

Military & Defense

Law

Education

 

Reviews

Black Friday

Home

Kitchen

Style

Streaming

Pets

Tech

Deals

Gifts

Tickets

 

Video

Big Business

Food Wars

So Expensive

Still Standing

Boot Camp

 
 

        Subscribe
            

My account

Log in

              Newsletters
            

US edition 

Deutschland & Österreich

España

Japan

Polska

TW 全球中文版

 
 

Get the app

 

 

 

 

                  Tech
                
 

Airbnb deals with thousands of sexual-assault allegations every year, but manages to keep many out of the public eye, report says

                              
                              By
                              
                              
                              
                                

Tyler Sonnemaker

 

Ute Grabowsky/Photothek via Getty Images 

                      2021-06-17T00:24:00.000Z
                    

 Share

Facebook
 

Email
 

X
 

LinkedIn
 

Reddit
 

Bluesky
 

WhatsApp
 

Copy link
 

lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.

Impact Link
 

 
Save
Saved

 
                      Read in app
                    

Add us on 

 

This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
                subscribers. Become an Insider
                and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.

Ex-Airbnb employees told Bloomberg the company faces thousands of sexual-assault claims annually.
Bloomberg's investigation revealed Airbnb has kept many of those cases out of the public eye.
Payouts, arbitration, and NDAs have helped Airbnb avoid scrutiny on safety issues, Bloomberg found.
See more stories on Insider's business page.

Former Airbnb employees said that the company deals with thousands of sexual-assault allegations every year, and that the vast majority of them never make it into the public eye, Bloomberg reported this week.

Its investigation disclosed new details about how Airbnb has used a combination of monetary settlements and legal tactics — such as mandatory arbitration clauses and nondisclosure agreements — to avoid lawsuits and negative press dealing with a variety of safety problems.
The result, Bloomberg found, is that regulators, researchers, and the public have had little visibility into the scope of safety incidents involving Airbnb and that courts haven't had the opportunity to determine who should be held legally liable.

Airbnb spends about $50 million a year trying to make things right for guests and hosts who've had bad experiences. One woman received a $7 million settlement after she said she was raped, Bloomberg reported.
The company told Bloomberg fewer than 0.1% of stays involve safety issues, that most payouts deal with claims of property damage, and that six-figure payouts are "exceptionally rare." But with 193 million nights booked in 2020, that could mean that some 193,000 Airbnb stays could've involved safety incidents, by the company's accounting.

Airbnb has dealt with a number of high-profile incidents over the years, including its first major scandal in 2011 after guests trashed a host's home and a fatal shooting in Orinda, California, in 2019 that forced the company to crack down on party houses and ramp up efforts to keep guests and hosts safe.
Bloomberg's reporting showed that Airbnb avoided scrutiny for serious incidents involving its guests, hosts, and listings, including numerous claims of sexual assault and a murder case.

Airbnb used to include a nondisclosure agreement in every case it settled, which prevented people from talking about their experiences, asking for more money, or suing the company, Bloomberg reported, adding that the company stopped the practice in 2017 as the #MeToo movement highlighted how NDAs often silence survivors of sexual assault.
An Airbnb spokesman, Ben Breit, told Insider that to the company's knowledge, "There are no settlement agreements related to sexual assaults at listings prior to 2017." (The $7 million settlement with the woman who was sexually assaulted was reached in 2017, after Airbnb stopped pursuing settlements with NDAs that prevent survivors from discussing details of their experiences, Bloomberg reported).

Airbnb has avoided lawsuits and public scrutiny over safety by including a mandatory arbitration clause in its terms of service. Such clauses prevent Airbnb guests and hosts from suing the company in court, where records are made public, instead forcing them to bring disputes through an arbitration system that's funded by, and often favors, companies — and where proceedings are kept confidential.
That apparently led to only one sexual-assault case being filed against Airbnb, which the courts allowed to proceed because, they said, the company hadn't done a thorough background check on the host, who had previously been accused of assault, Bloomberg found.

Airbnb declined to comment on its use of arbitration clauses.
Airbnb's ability to reach settlements and avoid lawsuits, either dealing with sexual assault or other safety issues, has prevented courts from determining when and to what extent short-term rental-booking sites should be held liable for crimes involving its users or listings, Bloomberg reported.

Many cities have introduced regulations aimed at Airbnb and its competitors in recent years, and Airbnb has devoted additional resources to keeping users safe. But, Bloomberg said, as with Uber, Lyft, and other "platform" companies that initially skirted regulations as they grew rapidly, being able to obscure the extent of safety issues from public view has left regulators lagging far behind.

If you are a survivor of sexual assault, you can call the National Sexual Assault Hotline (1-800-656-4673) or visit its website to receive confidential support.

 

 

Recommended video

 

 

AirBnB

Sexual Assault

Lawsuits

More 

Travel

IBM-block
 

                      Read next
                    

 

Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know

 

Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know

 

Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know

 

Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know

 

 

 

 

 
                HOME
              

    Subscribe
            

 

 

 

 

 

 

Legal & Privacy

Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
 Cookie Settings

Company

About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead

Other

Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
Corrections
AI Use

International Editions

AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW

Copyright © 2025 
    Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
    Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our 
    Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.

Jump to

Main content
Search
Account