American Express Fined $112 Million for Unethical Proceedings – Rob Sandall's Blog

Skip to the content

 
Search

Rob Sandall's BlogJust another UBC Blogs site

 
Menu

Sample Page

 Search

			Search for:		

					Close search				
 

Close Menu
 

Sample Page

					Categories				

Uncategorized 

American Express Fined $112 Million for Unethical Proceedings

								Post author							
 

							By robsandall 

								Post date							
 

October 1, 2012

 

No Comments on American Express Fined $112 Million for Unethical Proceedings 

The massive credit card company American Express has been fined 112 million dollars to settle accusations from regulators that it was charging its customers with unlawful and unethical late fees and deceived them into paying off debts unnecessarily and buying new lines of credit without being obligated to do so.
These fines for unethical proceedings were imposed upon the company following an enquiry from numerous regulatory forces, including the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and the Federal Reserve.  The company is being forced to pay around 85 million dollars to approximately 250000 customers, and 27 million in civil fines. The enquirers discovered that the company had been cheating customers from 2003 onwards to this spring. One of the deceptive scams used frequently by AmEx was to falsely tell customers that if they paid off a portion of their debt immediately, the remainder of their debt would be forgiven, as well as charging late fees on some credit cards based on a percentage of their debt, a practice outlawed by a 2009 law prohibiting some unfair credit card practices.
This case is a clear violation of Business Ethics as the company was earning a great deal of money by taking advantage of vulnerable customers who don’t know any better. This is yet another case of companies choosing to business the wrong way until they are caught and fined by regulatory forces. It showcases that if there weren’t regulatory forces such as the Federal Reserve there would be nothing keeping businesses to go about in an ethical manner other than their own conscience, which we have seen is a rare commodity in the corporate world.
Ethics is something that is taught in EVERY business school, so why do these things continue to happen? There are many cases to back up a train of thought that states that people simply do not care about doing the right thing, or just prefer to look the other way. Perhaps it will just be a problem that will always be present in the corporate world, and consumers, regulators, and other businesses will have to be aware of these issues, and strive to correct them.
 

←
Will Kalamazoo Bring Ethical Change for Enbridge?

→
Greek Economy Continues to Shrink

Leave a Reply Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

Δ 

			Search for:		

Recent Posts

External Blog Response: Workers’ Compensation Rates on the Rise

Response to Carly Erickson’s Post: BC Hydro : Taking Advantage of Their Monopoly

Response to Nicola Brookes’ Post: Socially Responsible Companies: For the Image or the Karma?

Skyfall

The Arc Initiative

Recent CommentsArchives

November 2012
October 2012
September 2012

Categories

Uncategorized

Meta

Register Log in
Entries feed
Comments feed
WordPress.org

 

©
							2025							Rob Sandall's Blog

								Powered by WordPress							

							To the top ↑ 

							Up ↑ 

Spam prevention powered by Akismet