anairtn.org: Wal-Mart/Lowes Center

CONSTRUCTION COMPLETED 
Wal-Mart / Lowe's Shopping 
          Center Destroys Native American Cemetery 
 The removal of Native American burials to clear the way for construction 
          of a Wal-Mart / Lowe's supercenter on Charlotte Pike in Nashville began 
          on February 25, 1998. This began the destruction of a major Native historical 
          site. When the excavations were completed in August, 1998, the remains 
          of 154 individuals had been taken from their graves.

 
Empty Graves at the Wal-Mart / Lowe's Shopping 
          Center Development
The developer of this project, JDN Realty of Atlanta, was aware of 
          the presence of the Indian cemetery before purchasing the property, 
          but proceeded with their plans anyway. They pushed a zoning change that 
          would be required to build the center on this property through Nashville's 
          planning commission and the city council, despite intense opposition 
          from the Indian community and residents of the neighborhood. This was 
          accomplished with the assistance of Councilman Eric Crafton, who supposedly 
          represented the district where the property is located. Crafton opposed 
          the development at first, then changed his mind and decided to support 
          it, convincing the city council to approve the necessary zoning change.
 
 Protesters line Charlotte Pike in front of Hillwood 
          Plaza Wal-Mart, prior to Metro Council vote
 JDN filed a "termination of cemetery" suit in Davidson County 
          Chancery Court that October, asking for permission to legally remove 
          the burials from the cemetery (JDN Requests Removal of Burials). Don 
          Yahola, at the time a Native American representative on Tennessee's 
          Archaeological Advisory Council and then president of the Alliance for 
          Native American Indian Rights, filed a motion with the court asking 
          to be admitted into the suit as an "interested person" in 
          order to object to the termination of the cemetery.
 Tennessee state law defines "interested persons" in a termination 
          of cemetery suit as "any and all persons who have any right or 
          easement or other right in, or incident or appurtenant to, a burial 
          ground ..." (Tennesse 
          Code Annotated (TCA) 46-4-102). Mr. Yahola, as a Native American 
          reresentative on the Archaeological Advisory Council, had certain rights 
          and interests in Native American cemeteries which are defined in Tennessee 
          Department of Environment and Conservation (TDEC) regulations and state 
          law. TDEC 
          Rule 0400-9-1-.04 requires that the Native members of the AAC be 
          notified in writing when a termination suit has been filed for a Native 
          cemetery. State law stipulates that the Native members of the AAC "shall 
          have a right to be present on the site at all times excavation or treatment 
          of such remains is taking place" (TCA 
          11-6-116). Note the use of the word "right" 
          in the preceding sentence.
 If the law defines an "interested person" as "any and 
          all persons who have any right" in 
          a burial ground, and the law gave Mr. Yahola, as a member of the AAC, 
          "a right to be present" when 
          an Indian cemetery is excavated, it is obvious that Mr. Yahola was an 
          "interested person" by definition. Incredibly, Chancellor 
          Carol McCoy ruled that Mr. Yahola was not an "interested person". 
          This decision indicates that Chancellor McCoy did not consider Mr. Yahola, 
          a Native American, to be a person. This was blatant racism 
          at its worst.

 Children's Graves at Wal-Mart / Lowe's Site. 
          Photo at Far Left Was Taken Just Before Excavation.
 Chancellor McCoy's decision not to admit Don Yahola into the suit 
          left no doubt that the Native cemetery would be terminated, since there 
          would be no one allowed to speak up in court to contest JDN's contention 
          that the cemetery was abandoned, neglected, and unsuitable as a resting 
          place for the dead. After the hearing at which JDN's attorney made their 
          case for the cemetery's destruction, Chancellor McCoy did sign the termination 
          order, allowing the removal of the burials to proceed.
 UPDATE!! 2/13/07  All removals have been reburied. 
 Close Window

©2001-2003 Alliance for Native American Indian Rights
                All rights reserved.
                Site design by Nissi 
                Creative Services