Bayer Accused Of Skirting Safety
    

Advertisement

                    
                    ACS
                

                    
                    ACS Publications
                

                    
                    C&EN
                

                    
                    CAS
                

                    
                    Jobs
                

Main menu

News

Topics

Newsletter

Podcasts

                            Explore
                            

                        Explore

Skip
                    Explore section

Features
                                

Perspectives
                                

Interviews
                                

ACS News
                                

Graphics
                                

Chempics
                                

Games
                                

Newscripts
                                

Webinars
                                

Whitepapers& E-books
                                

                            Highlights
                            

                        Highlights

Skip
                    Highlights section

                                    Molecules of the year 2025
                                

                                    Why scientists found lead in protein powders
                                

                                    Opinion: The PhD trap—what the degree prepared me for, and what not
                                

                                     New Normal: Living at wildfires' edge
                                

                                    How AI is taking over every step of drug discovery 
                                

                                    Nobel Prize
                                

                                    TOPICS
                                    

                                TOPICS

Skip TOPICS
                            section

ACS News
                                        

Analytical Chemistry
                                        

Biological Chemistry
                                        

Business
                                        

Careers
                                        

Education
                                        

Energy
                                        

Environment
                                        

Food
                                        

Materials
                                        

People
                                        

Pharmaceuticals
                                        

Physical Chemistry
                                        

Policy
                                        

Research Integrity
                                        

Safety
                                        

Synthesis
                                        

                                    MAGAZINE
                                    

                                MAGAZINE

Skip Magazine section

                                            
                                                Volume 103 |
                                            
                                            
                                                Issue 22
                                            
                                            November 17, 2025 
                                        

Previous
                                                Issues

Search

Search C&EN

Search C&EN

Search

News

Topics

Newsletter

Podcasts

                        Trending:
                    

Environmental Deregulation

Europe's Industrial Crisis

mRNA

                        Bayer Accused Of Skirting Safety
                    

Share

Safety

	Bayer Accused Of Skirting Safety
  

	Investigation: Rush to production caused plant explosion in West Virginia, safety board concludes
  

		
			by 
			
				
				 
				 
				 
					Jeff Johnson
				

January 24, 2011

4
						min read
					

						
							
								A version of this story appeared in
								
								
									Volume 89, Issue
									4
								
							
						
					

 
Share

The 2008 explosion at a Bayer CropScience plant in Institute, W.Va., caused extensive damage and two fatalities.

Credit:
              CSB

A decision to hasten the restart of a pesticide production process and bypass safety controls led to a tragic accident on Aug. 28, 2008, at the Bayer CropScience plant in Institute, W.Va., concludes the Chemical Safety & Hazard Investigation Board (CSB), in a report released on Jan. 20.

Animation of Bayer CropScience Pesticide Waste Tank ExplosionDownload Option: Quicktime Video | Windows Video

Credit:
              CSB

The accident destroyed a key pesticide manufacturing unit, killed two workers, required 40,000 people living near the plant to shelter in place, and revealed gross inadequacies in Bayer’s accident emergency response operations.
Workers at the Bayer plant were under pressure to resume production of the pesticides methomyl and Larvin after a lengthy maintenance shutdown, according to the CSB investigation. As a result, they failed to evaluate new computer programs, inspect safety equipment, and conduct safety process checks.
Most critical, the report says, was the intentional overriding of an interlock system that was designed to prevent a runaway reaction inside a residue treater pressure vessel. Late at night, the vessel overpressurized and exploded in a fireball, sending vessel pieces flying. Fortunately, the debris missed a nearby aboveground tank storing 13,000 lb of methyl isocyanate (MIC), which is an intermediate in pesticide manufacturing and is the chemical that caused the deaths of thousands of people in Bhopal, India, in 1984.
The resulting fire from the Bayer explosion burned for four hours while company officials kept local residents in the dark about the accident, even blocking the state fire marshal from entering the plant. Local emergency responders called for residents to shelter in place without input from plant officials, who had recommended the same action but did not make their views public (C&EN, May 11, 2009, page 25).
In the months that followed, Bayer officials repeatedly stated that no toxic material had been released during the accident. They blocked CSB from making portions of its investigation public and claimed that the data were “sensitive security information” and therefore protected under federal provisions to thwart terrorists. Eventually, Congress and the Department of Homeland Security intervened, and Bayer’s security claim was found to be invalid.
During its investigation, the safety board determined that plant air monitors that could have detected the release of toxic chemicals were not working at the time of the accident. And according to the CSB report, no reliable data or analytical methods were available to determine which chemicals were released or to predict exposure concentrations.

The board’s report makes a host of recommendations to the company, the state, EPA, and OSHA, but CSB Chairman Rafael Moure-Eraso highlighted his view that West Virginia should create a locally run hazardous chemical release prevention program, modeled on a chemical plant oversight program in California’s Contra Costa County.
“Local jurisdictions can put together highly effective and targeted inspection and enforcement programs, funded by levies on the plants themselves,” he continued. “The accident rate in Contra Costa County has dropped dramatically, and last year in fact they had no significant accidents, thanks to this program.”
Since the West Virginia accident, Bayer has decided to gradually end all production, use, and storage of MIC by next year (C&EN, Jan. 17, page 24).
Maya Nye, head of a community organization in West Virginia created after the Bhopal accident, applauds Bayer’s decision. She also backs the new plant oversight program proposed by CSB and urges a shift to inherently safer technologies by the 48 chemical plants near Institute.
“As a manufacturer, we have an obligation to ensure our operations are conducted under the highest standards of safety,” Steven Hedrick, Bayer vice president, said at a community meeting on Jan. 20. “On that night in August, we did not live up to those obligations or to the expectations of our community.” He then described several changes that plant management has taken since the accident, many of which improve emergency response and communication with the community when an accident occurs. Hedrick also singled out efforts to implement new process safety measures and increase training as well as reduce MIC use and storage.

Send the reporter feedback 

Submit a Letter to the Editor for publication 

Chemical & Engineering News
ISSN 0009-2347
Copyright ©
            2025 American Chemical Society

Enjoyed the article?
Share
				

Bayer Accused Of Skirting Safety

						Investigation: Rush to production caused plant explosion in West Virginia, safety board concludes
					

cen.acs.org

Advertisement

                            More in
                            
                                
                                    Safety
                                

Editor's Picks

Popular

Return to top

2/3
FREE ARTICLES LEFT THIS MONTH

Chemistry matters. Join us to get the news you need.

Get More 
                    Get More 
                  

                  

Close

 Must-read Weekly Newsletter
An editor’s selection of the C&EN stories that will continue to spark conversations in the week ahead

Email Address

                Subscribe
              

Privacy Policy

Chemistry News That Matters
C&EN empowers those in and around the global chemical enterprise

                Upgrade
              

                Subscribe to C&EN
              

Debug leftColumns:
leftColumns exists: no

The Edge in Chemistry News

              About C&EN
            

              Contact
            

              Advertise
            

              C&EN Brandlab
            

              ACS Publications
            

              ACS Chemistry Career
            

              Join ACS
            

              Renew Membership
            

              ACS Network
            

              CAS
            

C&EN Mobile App

Follow C&EN

                   Help
                

                  Accessibility Statement
                

                  Privacy Policy
                

                  Terms of Use
                

                  Site Map
                

            Copyright ©
            2025 American Chemical Society. All
            Rights Reserved.
          

                    Share This Article

Close

Copy Link

                                        Facebook
                                    

                                        X
                                    

                                        LinkedIn
                                    

                                        Bluesky
                                    

                                        Reddit
                                    

                                        Wechat
                                    

                                        Email
                                    

                                        Print
                                    

                        Share "" via email
                    

Close

Send Email to*

                                To send an email to multiple recipients, separate email addresses with a comma,
                                semicolon, or both.
                            

Your Name*

Your Email Address*

Add a Note

                                Optional personal message to include with the shared article.
                            

Send Email

                                Sending...
                            

                            Chemical & Engineering News will not share your email address with any other person or company.
                        

Email Sent Successfully

Your email has been sent to 
Article: