Bayer | Holocaust Encyclopedia
            

 

 

Skip to main content

Menu

Must Reads ▾

Introduction to the Holocaust

Antisemitism: An Introduction

Nazi Gas Chambers

Beer Hall Putsch (Munich Putsch)

Kristallnacht

International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg

Adolf Hitler and the Nazi Rise to Power, 1918–1933

Axis Powers in World War II

Theresienstadt

Home

Search

Language

        English
        ▾

						عربي (Arabic)
					

						汉语 (Chinese)
					

						فارسی (Farsi)
					

						français (French)
					

						Deutsch (German)
					

						Ελληνικά (Greek)
					

						हिंदी (Hindi)
					

						Magyar (Hungarian)
					

						Indonesia (Indonesian)
					

						Italiano (Italian)
					

						日本語 (Japanese)
					

						한국어 (Korean)
					

						polski (Polish)
					

						Português - Brasil (Portuguese-Brazil)
					

						русский (Russian)
					

						Español (Spanish)
					

						Türkçe (Turkish)
					

						Українська (Ukrainian)
					

						اُردو (Urdu)
					

 

Featured Content

Tags
Find topics of interest and explore encyclopedia content related to those topics

Browse A-Z
Find articles, photos, maps, films, and more listed alphabetically

For Teachers
Recommended resources and topics if you have limited time to teach about the Holocaust

ID Cards
Explore the ID Cards to learn more about personal experiences during the Holocaust

Timeline of Events
Explore a timeline of events that occurred before, during, and after the Holocaust.

Audio Narrations
Explore all content with human-read audio versions.

Must Reads

                                    Introduction to the Holocaust
                                

                                    Antisemitism: An Introduction
                                

                                    Nazi Gas Chambers
                                

                                    Beer Hall Putsch (Munich Putsch)
                                

                                    Kristallnacht
                                

                                    International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg
                                

                                    Adolf Hitler and the Nazi Rise to Power, 1918–1933
                                

                                    Axis Powers in World War II
                                

                                    Theresienstadt
                                

About this site

                    Close menu
                

Search the Holocaust Encyclopedia

Enter your search term here

Content types

All categories
▾

 Animated Map
                

 Article
                

 Artifact
                

 Audio
                

 Discussion Question
                

 Document
                

 Film
                

 ID Card
                

 Map
                

 Media Essay
                

 Oral History
                

 Photo
                

 Series
                

 Song
                

 Timeline
                

 Timeline Event
                

Clear Selections

 
Language

English 
عربي (Arabic)
汉语 (Chinese)
فارسی (Farsi)
français (French)
Deutsch (German)
Ελληνικά (Greek)
हिंदी (Hindi)
Magyar (Hungarian)
Indonesia (Indonesian)
Italiano (Italian)
日本語 (Japanese)
한국어 (Korean)
polski (Polish)
Português - Brasil (Portuguese-Brazil)
русский (Russian)
Español (Spanish)
Türkçe (Turkish)
Українська (Ukrainian)
اُردو (Urdu)

▾

 Search

Trending keywords:

                    Close search menu
                

Your browser is out of date and may not support some of the features of this webpage. Please consider updating your browser or using another.
 

Bayer

Key Facts

1

Best known for their path-breaking anti-inflammatory pain reliever, Aspirin, the Bayer pharmaceutical company was founded in 1863.

2

Bayer became part of IG Farben, a powerful German chemical conglomerate, in 1925. 

3

Investigating Bayer’s role during World War II reveals the complex and often dark history of German pharmaceutical companies during the Holocaust.

Skip complementary section (continue reading)

Cite

Share

Print

Tags

Subsequent Nuremberg Proceedings
industry
medical experiments
medical professions
complicity

        This content is available in the following languages
    

                    Close language menu
                

The Founding of Bayer
The Bayer company was founded in Barmen, a city in the Rhineland, by the entrepreneur Friedrich Bayer and his partner Johann Weskott. The company originally produced synthetic dyes before expanding into the chemical and pharmaceutical markets. By the early 20th century, it had become a substantial and powerful company on the international stage. Bayer scored early successes in pharmacology with the patenting of phenobarbital (branded as Veronal), an early treatment for epilepsy, and heroin—now a banned substance because of its addictive nature— used until 1910 as a cough suppressant and as a less addictive alternative to morphine. In 1939, one of Bayer’s scientists, Gerhard Domagk, received the 1939 Nobel Prize for his discovery of the sulfanilamide Prontosil, the first commercially produced antibacterial drug.
While Germany was a leading manufacturer of chemicals and pharmaceuticals, international competition led to the creation in 1925 of a massive conglomerate known as IG Farben. The conglomerate included Bayer and other major companies such as BASF, Hoechst (Aventis), and AGFA. Bayer remained an individual subsidiary within the larger monopoly. By 1926, the powerful conglomerate had three times as many assets as all other chemical companies in Germany combined.
Bayer and the Holocaust
As part of the IG Farben conglomerate, which strongly supported the Third Reich, the Bayer company was complicit in the crimes of the Third Reich. In its most criminal activities, the company took advantage of the absence of legal and ethical constraints on medical experimentation to test its drugs on unwilling human subjects. These included paying a retainer to SS physician Helmuth Vetter to test Rutenol and other sulfonamide drugs on deliberately infected patients at the Dachau, Auschwitz, and Gusen concentration camps. Vetter was later convicted by an American military tribunal at the Mauthausen Trial in 1947, and was executed at Landsberg Prison in February 1949. In Buchenwald, physicians infected prisoners with typhus in order to test the efficacy of anti-typhus drugs, resulting in high mortality among test prisoners.
Bayer was particularly active in Auschwitz. A senior Bayer official oversaw the chemical factory in Auschwitz III (Monowitz). Most of the experiments were conducted in Birkenau in Block 20, the women's camp hospital. There, Vetter and Auschwitz physicians Eduard Wirths and Friedrich Entress tested Bayer pharmaceuticals on prisoners who suffered from and often had been deliberately infected with tuberculosis, diphtheria, and other diseases.
Responsibility and Reparations

Photo
The courtroom during the IG Farben Trial (Photo)

View of the courtroom as seen from the interpreters' section during the IG Farben Trial. The defense lawyers are in the foreground, the defendants are in the dock to the right, and the spectators' gallery is on the far side of the courtroom.

Credits: 

US Holocaust Memorial Museum, courtesy of John W. Mosenthal

View Archival Details 

 After the war, some employees of Bayer appeared in the IG Farben Trial, one of the Nuremberg Subsequent Tribunals under US jurisdiction. Among them was Fritz ter Meer, who helped to plan the Monowitz camp (Auschwitz III) and IG Farben’s Buna Werke factory at Auschwitz, where medical experimentation had been conducted and where 25,000 forced laborers were deployed. Ter Meer was sentenced to seven years, but was released in 1950 for good behavior. One positive outcome of these subsequent Nuremberg Trials was the establishment of the Nuremberg Code, a product of the Nuremberg Doctors’ Trial which codified prohibitions against the kinds of involuntary experimentation conducted by Bayer in the concentration camp system.
In the immediate postwar, the victorious allies divided the IG Farben conglomerate into individual companies. Bayer emerged as an independent enterprise. By the mid-1970s, Bayer, along with BASF and Hoechst, had returned to economic domination, aiding in the “German Economic Miracle” and re-emerging as one of the world’s largest pharmaceutical companies. Bayer, however, did little to come to terms with its Nazi past. Fritz ter Meer, convicted of war crimes for his actions at Auschwitz, was elected to Bayer AG’s supervisory board in 1956, a position he retained until 1964.

Last Edited: Jun 13, 2019

Glossary Terms

 

Critical Thinking Questions

Investigate some of the roles that German industries of all kinds played in the Nazi war effort.
Explore the concepts of responsibility and reparations further.

Feedback

 

Thank you for supporting our work

			We would like to thank Crown Family Philanthropies, Abe and Ida Cooper Foundation, the Claims Conference, EVZ, and BMF for supporting the ongoing work to create content and resources for the Holocaust Encyclopedia.
			View the list of all donors.
		

Glossary

Full Glossary

                    Close glossary
                

100 Raoul Wallenberg Place, SWWashington, DC 20024-2126
Main telephone: 202.488.0400
TTY: 202.488.0406

Get the Latest News

 E-mail Address

Postal Code

                                    Plan Your Visit
                                    
                                

                                    Current Exhibitions
                                    
                                

                                    Calendar of Events
                                    
                                

                                    Support the Museum
                                    
                                

                                    Donate
                                    
                                

                                    Learn
                                    
                                

                                    Teach
                                    
                                

                                    Collections
                                    
                                

                                    Academic Research
                                    
                                

                                    Remember Survivors and Victims
                                    
                                

                                    Genocide Prevention
                                    
                                

                                    Antisemitism and Holocaust Denial
                                    
                                

                                    Outreach
                                    
                                

                                    Holocaust Encyclopedia
                                    
                                

                                    Collections Search
                                    
                                

                                    Holocaust Survivors and Victims Resource Center
                                    
                                

                                    History Unfolded
                                    
                                

                                    Experiencing History
                                    
                                

                                    Early Warning Project
                                    
                                

                        About the Museum
                        
                    

                        Contact the Museum
                        
                    

                        Terms of Use
                        
                    

                        Privacy
                        
                    

                        Accessibility
                        
                    

                        Legal