BBC News | AFRICA | Mali's children in chocolate slavery

low graphics version | feedback | help

 You are in: World: Africa 

Front Page 

World 

Africa 

Americas 

Asia-Pacific 

Europe 

Middle East 

South Asia 

-------------

From Our Own Correspondent 

-------------

Letter From America 

UK 

UK Politics 

Business 

Sci/Tech 

Health 

Education 

Entertainment 

Talking Point 

In Depth 

AudioVideo 

The BBC's Humphrey Hawksley"No one knows because no one has bothered to check" real 56k Bob Eagle of the Biscuit and Confectionary Alliance"We are negotiating for there to be a change in the contract terms under which cocoa is traded" real 56k 

Thursday, 12 April, 2001, 06:32 GMT 07:32 UK

Mali's children in chocolate slavery

Malick Doumbia escaped, but many others have not

By BBC's Humphrey Hawksley in Mali

At a run-down police station in Sikasso, a small town in Mali, the files on missing children are endless. 

The sad truth is that many have been kidnapped and sold into slavery. The going price is about US$30. 

I might have got out but there are thousands of children still over there. If  by your report, you can help free just one, you would be doing a good job

	
	

Former child slave Malick Doumbia
	
	
	

The local police chief is in no doubt where the children have gone. "It's definitely slavery over there," he said. "The kids have to work so hard they get sick and some even die." 

In all, at least 15,000 children are thought to be over in the neighbouring Ivory Coast, producing cocoa which then goes towards making almost half of the world's chocolate. 
Many are imprisoned on farms and beaten if they try to escape. Some are under 11 years old.
Save haven 

Save the Children Fund has set up a transit centre in the hope that one day these children will come home from the cocoa, coffee and other farms on which they are working.   

But so far they haven't. The place is empty, although one who managed to escape has a message worth listening to. 

Mali's Save the Children Fund
director, Salia Kante, has a message for shoppers  - think about 
what you are buying

"I might have got out," said Malick Doumbia, "but there are thousands of children still over there. If  by your report, you can help free just one, you would be doing a good job."  
 The work of this former slave ended up in shops around the world, as products that often do not specify exactly where they came from. 

So Mali's Save the Children Fund
director, Salia Kante, has a message for shoppers too - think about 
what you are buying. 

 "People who are drinking cocoa or coffee are drinking their blood," he said. "It is the blood of young children carrying 6kg of cocoa sacks so heavy that they have wounds all over their shoulders. It's really pitiful to see."

 Slave trade

In the market, field worker Ibrahim Haidara asks people what they know about the slave trade. 

Sikasso's police chief has records of many missing children

	
	

	
	
		
	

One man replied: "After one year you don't get money. If you ask for your money, you don't get money and you are beaten." 

The slave children are taken from poor areas of Mali - the sons and daughters of street sellers, or the slum kids whose parents sell them for just a few dollars to work as plantation slaves in another country. 

 Yet the multi-nationals who make their living out of selling chocolate and coffee all around the world haven't contributed anything to the campaign here to stop the slavery trade taking place. 

 

Search BBC News Online

Advanced search options

BBC RADIO NEWS

BBC ONE TV NEWS

WORLD NEWS SUMMARY

BBC NEWS 24 BULLETIN

PROGRAMMES GUIDE

See also:
28 Sep 00 | Africa
The bitter taste of slavery

29 Sep 00 | Africa
Mali's children in slavery

10 Jan 01 | Country profiles
Country profile: Mali

21 Mar 01 | Country profiles
Country profile: Ivory Coast

Internet links:
Save the ChildrenAnti-slavery Organisation
The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites

Top Africa stories now:

Huge challenge for African Union

Kenya hit by malaria epidemic

New hope for Aids vaccine

Winnie Mandela faces fraud trial

Ratsiraka moots Madagascar return

Nigerian woman fights stoning

Opposition attacks Ivory Coast poll

African Union replaces dictators' club

Links to more Africa stories are at the foot of the page.

 E-mail this story to a friend

Links to more Africa stories

In This Section

			Huge challenge for African Union
		

			Kenya hit by malaria epidemic
		

			New hope for Aids vaccine
		

			Winnie Mandela faces fraud trial
		

			Ratsiraka moots Madagascar return
		

			Nigerian woman fights stoning
		

			Opposition attacks Ivory Coast poll
		

			African Union replaces dictators' club
		

			Winnie: From 'mother' to 'mugger'
		

			Sierra Leone TRC to begin work
		

			Carlos Alberto new Zamalek coach
		

			Geremi apologises to Cameroon
		

			Selection change welcomed
		

			CAR accelerates anti-corruption drive
		

			Zambia pleads for more donations
		

			Workers redundant at Jensen plant
		

			Rebels face life without a cause
		

			CAR leader praises crash pilot
		

			Bombs shatter Algerian celebrations
		

			Oromo rebels deny Ethiopian 'victory'
		

			Madagascar's chance for change
		

^^ Back to top
News Front Page | World | UK | UK Politics | Business | Sci/Tech | Health | Education | Entertainment | Talking Point | In Depth  | AudioVideo 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To BBC Sport>> | To BBC Weather>>

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------© MMIII | News Sources | Privacy