Boycott Israel Campaign

 

   
      

FREE Subscription
to our
NEWSLETTER
just enter
your email address

subscribe 
unsubscribe 

View 
        Previous Issues

BOYCOTT ISRAEL CAMPAIGN

COMPANY : 
            
Estee Lauder

PRODUCTS & AFFILIATED 
              COMPANIES:

Aramis

Clinique

DKNY

Prescriptives

Origins Natural Resources

MAC Cosmetics
 

La Mer

Bobbi Brown Essentials

 

Tommy Hilfiger Toiletries

Jane

 

Donna Karan Cosmetics

Aveda

 

Stila Cosmetics

 

Jo Malone

Bumble and Bumble

Kate Spade

 

RESEARCH FINDINGS :

Estée Lauder's chairman, Ronald Lauder, 
                  also one time chairman of the Conference of Presidents of Major 
                  American Jewish Organizations[2], is the current president of 
                  the Jewish National Fund (JNF) - a quasi-governmental agency 
                  whose main function is to legitimize Israeli occupation of Palestinian 
                  land. Ronald Lauder is an ardent zionist, his activities have 
                  been catalogued by American Muslims for Jerusalem [3] who called 
                  for a boycott in Febuary 2001. In fact his views are often more 
                  extreme then some israeli governments![4]

Ronald 
                    Lauder

ADDITIONAL INFO & 
              REFs :

[1]

From Jewish Defence League website: http://www.jdl.org/action/armchair/estee_lauder.html
Miriam Shear sent us the following e-mail. JDL agrees that 
                    it's very important to support companies that are pro-Israel.

Estee Lauder Corporation is being boycotted by a loud and 
                      ambitious campain by the world's Arab and Muslim community 
                      due to Ron Lauder's (Estee Lauder President) support for 
                      Israel, and Mr. Lauder has been extremely courageous and 
                      public in his support for the Jewish State and has taken 
                      great personal and financial risks to inform the world of 
                      the war that the Palestinian Authority has declared on Israel 
                      and Jews worldwide. To combat this boycott I suggest that 
                      we all go out and buy as much Estee Lauder and Clinique 
                      products as possible. Mother's Day is coming up - make the 
                      Estee Lauder and Clinique counters your gift of choice. 
                      Switch brands -- at least for a while. Beauty has many discomforts, 
                      my mother used to say. So does supporting those who speak 
                      for us. Am Yisrael Chai!

 

[2]

Global Jewish Agenda ( Jewish Agency For Israel publication):
                    http://www.jafi.org.il/agenda/english/index18-1.asp
The publisher of U.S. News and World Report, and of New York 
                    Daily News, Mort Zuckerman, succeeded Ronald Lauder as the 
                    head of the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish 
                    Organizations. (June 2001)
 

[3]

American Muslims for Jerusalem:
                    http://www.amjerusalem.org/2-28-01 Estee Lauder Boycott.htm

AMJ holds Press Conference to Announce Estee Lauder Boycott 
                     
On Wednesday, February 28 2001, American Muslims for Jerusalem 
                    (AMJ) lead a coalition of advocacy organizations in a press 
                    conference calling for a worldwide boycott of cosmetics giant 
                    Estée Lauder. That announcement was prompted by Estée 
                    Lauder International Chairman Ronald Lauder’s activities 
                    in support of Israeli right-wing extremists.
Estee Lauders products include: Estee Lauder line of perfume 
                    and make-up, Aramis, Clinique, Aveda, DKNY and Tommy Hilfegere 
                    toiletries products. Estee Lauder also owns several lines 
                    of hair and skin care products and shops such as M.A.C. and 
                    Origins.
Ronald Lauder is the Chairman of the Conference of Presidents 
                    of Major American Jewish Organizations and President of the 
                    Jewish National Fund (JNF). JNF is a quasi-government agency 
                    whose main function is to legitimize Israeli’s theft 
                    of Palestinian land.
In January, Lauder was the key speaker from the US at a rally 
                    in Jerusalem, organized by right wing Israeli politician Natan 
                    Sharansky. The rally was organized to oppose the mere consideration 
                    of Jerusalem as a negotiation item. Lauder addressed 300,000 
                    Israeli extremists at the gates of Haram Al-Sharif (the Noble 
                    Sanctuary, one of Islam’s three holiest sites). Some 
                    of the protesters tried to break into the holy site.
Khalid Turaani, AMJ’s Executive Director said “this 
                    boycott of Estee Lauder will send a clear message that people 
                    of conscience refuse to do business with corporations supporting 
                    Israeli apartheid policies which violate internationally-recognized 
                    human rights”.
In 1993, Lauder co-founded a think tank called the Shalem 
                    Center with Yoram Hazony, a former Netanyahu aid. The Israeli 
                    Education Ministry has said the center is “a research 
                    institute whose leanings are extreme right-wing and even fascistic.” 
                    Hebrew University professor Yisrael Bartal describes Hazony 
                    as a right-wing extremist. A columnist for the Israeli newspaper 
                    Ha'aretz (9/14/2000) wrote that Hazony is a sympathizer of 
                    the slain radical Jewish leader Meir Kahane, who called for 
                    the expulsion of all Arabs from Israel. The goal of Hazony, 
                    wrote the columnist, is to find new ways of “breathing 
                    life into Kahane's racist, totalitarian, intolerant ideology.”
Ronald Lauder’s Jerusalem-rally speech came at a time 
                    when the Israeli government was waging a campaign of siege 
                    and starvation against the entire Palestinian population. 
                    While Mr. Lauder supports some legitimate charitable causes 
                    in the US, he shows his true colors when abroad by supporting 
                    fanatic causes that seek to uproot an entire population from 
                    its native land. Lauder is also opposed to permitting Palestinian 
                    refugees to return to their homes. “For Israel to allow 
                    these people to return would be national suicide,” he 
                    said in a statement last September. In contrast, the UN General 
                    Assembly has demanded that Israel allow the Palestinian refugees 
                    to return since 1948. "Lauder’s opposition to the 
                    return of Palestinian refugees in order to maintain the pure-Jewish 
                    identity of Israel is nothing short of apartheid at its worst" 
                    said Turaani.
 

[4]

Ha'arezt, February 20, 2001

Lauder, who stirred controversy among American Jews by attending 
                    a recent rally opposing proposals by the U.S. and Israeli 
                    governments to divide authority in Jerusalem between Israel 
                    and the Palestinians, said Sharon would not compromise over 
                    Israeli control over all of Jerusalem. "I know General 
                    Sharon is a man of his word. He has said he would not divide 
                    Jerusalem and I accept that," Lauder said.
Lauder met with Prime Minister-elect Ariel Sharon and told 
                    him that American Jews, from the far left and the far left, 
                    are firmly behind him. "I have never seen the American 
                    Jewish community more united than it has been recently," 
                    he said.
 

[5]

According to Yahoo Finance, Ronald Lauder also has interests 
                    in the following companies:

RSL Communications Ltd - Chairman
Central European Media Enterprises Ltd - Nonexecutive 
                      Chairman (31,000 shares). 

Central European Media Enterprises Ltd., together with its 
                    subsidiaries and affiliates, invests in, develops and operates 
                    national and regional commercial television stations and networks 
                    in Central and Eastern Europe. The Company manages its business 
                    segments primarily on a geographic basis. 
Its segments are comprised of :
PRO TV (Romania)
Markiza TV (Slovakia)
POP TV and Kanal A (Slovenia)
Studio 1+1 Group (Ukraine)
Ceska nezavisla televizni spolecnost, spol. s r.o. (CNTS) 
                    (Czech Republic).
source: 
                    http://biz.yahoo.com/t/95/673.html
                    http://biz.yahoo.com/p/c/cetvf.ob.html
 

URL: 
              http://www.inminds.com/boycott-estee-lauder.html

HOME PAGE