BT fined £17.5m for 999 call-handling failures

< iframe src = "//www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-KNKJHR"
height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden">

Skip to content

 

hamburger menu

Go Back

×

Topics Menu 

 About Ofcom 

                        Ofcom is the regulator for the communications services that we use and rely on each day.
                    

 Internet-based services 

                        As people communicate seamlessly online and offline, we now need to invest our efforts into making digital communications work for everyone
                    

 Media use and attitudes 

                        Ofcom wants to understand how adults and children in the UK use media.
                    

 Online safety 

                        Under the Online Safety Act, Ofcom's job is to make online services safer for the people who use them. We make sure companies have effective systems in place to protect users from harm.
                    

 Phones and broadband 

                        Ofcom is committed to a thriving telecoms sector, where companies can compete fairly and customers benefit from a broad range of services.
                    

 Post 

                        Ofcom's job is to make sure there is a universal postal service.
                    

 Spectrum 

                        You can't see or feel radio spectrum, but we use it every day. Our job is to authorise and manage the use of spectrum in the UK.
                    

 TV, radio and on-demand 

                        We make sure that broadcasters provide quality TV, radio and on-demand programmes that appeal to diverse audiences. We also have rules in place to protect viewers and listeners from harm.
                    

Ofcom's work Menu 

Advice for businesses 

                        How to make the most of communications services as a small business.
                    

Advice for consumers 

                        How to make the most of the services you use, and deal with problems.
                    

Consultations and statements 

                        Proposals we are consulting on and decisions we've made.
                    

Enforcement 

                        How we make sure companies follow our rules, to protect customers and promote competition.
                    

Information for industry 

                        Rules, guidance and other information for the industries we regulate.
                    

Licence information 

                        If you're looking to use certain radio equipment, or broadcast on TV or radio, you'll need a licence from Ofcom.
                    

News and updates 

                        Our latest news, features, views and information about our work.
                    

Research, statistics and data 

                        Evidence we gather to inform our work as a regulator.
                    

 Complaints Menu 

Complaints 

Complain about mobile, phone or internet services
Complain about TV, radio or on demand services
Complain about postal services
Complain about wireless interference
Complain about online services, websites or apps
Complain about premium rate services

						Ofcom may be able to help you complain about or report issues relating to: phone, broadband and postal services; TV, radio and on-demand programmes; interference to wireless devices; or something you have seen on an online service, website or app.
					

								The types of complaint Ofcom deals with
							

								Get in touch by phone or post
							

 Licences Menu 

Licences 

Spectrum licences
Radio broadcast licences
TV broadcast licences

						You need a licence from Ofcom if you’re looking to use certain radio equipment (like amateur or ships radio), or broadcast on TV or radio.
					

								Help with your spectrum licence
							

								Help with your broadcast licence
							

Global Search

Search
Search

        The maximum allowed length for a search is 256 characters
    
Quick links

Broadband and mobile coverage checker

Social tariffs: Cheaper broadband and phone packages

Telephone area codes: Find UK dialling codes for numbers starting 01 and 02

Ofcom licensing portal for aircraft, amateur and ships radio

Latest news

 
Ofcom fines porn company £1 million for not having robust age checks

4 December 2025

 
Ofcom fines Virgin Media £23.8 million for putting vulnerable customers at risk of harm

1 December 2025

 
Disabled people remain underrepresented across broadcasting workforce

28 November 2025

 
Ofcom publishes its 2024-25 annual report on the BBC

28 November 2025

Cymraeg

Home
Phones and broadband
Telecoms infrastructure
BT fined £17.5m for 999 call-handling failures

BT fined £17.5m for 999 call-handling failures

Share this page

                URL copied
            

								Phones and broadband
							

								Telecoms infrastructure
							

								News and updates
							

								News
							

							Published:
							22 July 2024
						

Network disruption affected 14,000 emergency calls in June 2023 and lasted 10.5 hours
Law requires networks to take appropriate steps to prepare for potential outages
Ofcom finds that BT was not properly prepared to handle the incident

Ofcom has today fined BT £17.5 million for being ill-prepared to respond to a catastrophic failure of its emergency call handling service last summer. 
BT connects 999 and 112 calls in the UK and provides relay services for deaf and speech-impaired people.
On Sunday 25 June 2023, BT experienced a network fault that affected its ability to connect calls to emergency services between 06:24 and 16:56. During the incident, nearly 14,000 call attempts – from 12,392 different callers – were unsuccessful.
BT notified Ofcom of this issue, as required by law, and on 28 June 2023 Ofcom opened an investigation to establish whether the company had failed to comply with its legal duties to take appropriate and proportionate measures to prepare for potential disruption to its network.[1]
How the incident unfolded
There were three key stages to this incident:
Phase 1, from 06:24 to 07:33 – During the first hour, BT’s emergency call handling system was disrupted by what was later found to be a configuration error in a file on its server. This resulted in call handling agents’ systems restarting as soon as a call was received; agents being logged out of the system; calls being disconnected or dropped upon transfer to the emergency authorities; and calls being put back in the queue. BT was initially unable to determine the cause of the issue and attempted to switch to its disaster recovery platform.
Phase 2, from 07:33 to 08:50 – The first attempt to switch to the disaster recovery platform was unsuccessful due to human error. This was a result of instructions being poorly documented, and the team being unfamiliar with the process. The incident grew from affecting some calls to a total outage of the system.
Phase 3, from 08:50 to 16:56 – The rate of unsuccessful calls decreased once traffic was migrated successfully to the disaster recovery platform. However, usual service was not fully restored initially as the disaster recovery platform struggled with demand.
BT’s inadequate preparedness
We found that BT did not have sufficient warning systems in place for when this kind of incident occurs, nor did it have adequate procedures for promptly assessing the severity, impact and likely cause of any such incident or for identifying mitigating actions. We also found that BT’s disaster recovery platform had insufficient capacity and functionality to deal with a level of demand that might reasonably be expected.
The incident also caused disruption to text relay calls, which meant people with hearing and speech difficulties were unable to make any calls, including to friends, family, businesses and services. This left deaf and speech-impaired users at increased risk of harm.
Financial penalty
BT is a large, well-resourced and experienced communications provider. Although there have been no confirmed reports by the emergency authorities of serious harm to members of the public as a result of the incident, the potential degree of harm was extremely significant. As a result of BT’s failures, Ofcom has decided to fine the company £17,500,000.[2]
Being able to contact the emergency services can mean the difference between life and death, so in the event of any disruption to their networks, providers must be ready to respond quickly and effectively.
In this case, BT fell woefully short of its responsibilities and was ill-prepared to deal with such a large-scale outage, putting its customers at unacceptable risk.
Today’s fine sends a broader warning to all firms -– if you’re not properly prepared to deal with disruption to your networks, we’ll hold you to strict account on behalf of consumers.
- Suzanne Cater, Ofcom’s Director of Enforcement 
In considering the level of financial penalty, we took into account factors such as the seriousness, duration and degree of harm. We also considered steps BT has taken to remedy these issues, including fixing the error that caused the disruption; making improvements to fault monitoring; improving the disaster recovery platform; and documenting a clear process for switching to it. And we recognised that BT self-reported the incident, in line with its obligations, and provided regular updates. BT has also cooperated fully with our investigation and has provided Ofcom with information in a timely manner when requested.
Notes to editors
[1] Section 105A(1) of the Communications Act 2003, as amended by the Telecommunications (Security) Act 2021 – which came into force in October 2022 – and Regulation 9 of the Electronic Communications (Security Measures) Regulations 2022 require providers of public electronic communications networks and services to take such measures as are appropriate and proportionate, among others, to prepare for the occurrence of security compromises. Section 105A(2) of the Communications Act 2003 defines a security compromise as including anything that compromises the availability, performance or functionality of the network or service.
[2] BT must pay the fine within two months of this decision, and it will then be passed on to HM Treasury. It includes a 30% reduction as a result of BT’s admission of liability and agreement to settle the case. 

Related content

Ofcom fines BT £2.8m for failing its EE and Plusnet customers

                    Ofcom has today fined BT £2.8m after it failed to provide more than a million customers with clear and simple contract information before signing up to a new deal.
                

Telecoms customers turning to their providers for debt advice

                    Four in five telecoms customers who look for information about debt support turn to their provider for it, new Ofcom research indicates.
                

24 million UK homes can get gigabit broadband

                    Ofcom's interim update to the last annual Connected Nations report. This report is based on fixed broadband availability and mobile coverage in the UK as of January 2024.
                

 

                    Subscribe to email updates 

Follow us 

x-twitter

facebook

linkedin

youtube

instagram

tiktok

About Ofcom 

                            What is Ofcom?
                        

                            Contact us
                        

                            Nations and regions
                        

                            Jobs
                        

                            General Privacy Statement
                        

                            Modern slavery statement
                        

                            Our work in Welsh
                        

About this website 

                            Accessibility
                        

                            Cookies policy
                        

                            Terms of use
                        

                            Copyright and information re-use
                        

 

 © Ofcom 2025 

Back to top