CFPB and American Express Reach Resolution to Address Discriminatory Card Terms in Puerto Rico and U.S. Territories | Consumer Financial Protection Bureau

            Skip to main content
        

      An official website of the
      United States government

                            Español
                        

                            中文
                        

                            Tiếng Việt
                        

                            한국어
                        

                            Tagalog
                        

                            Pусский
                        

                            العربية
                        

                            Kreyòl Ayisyen
                        

(855) 411-2372

            Submit a Complaint
        

            Search
        

Search

Close

        Search
    

                Open the main menu
            

                Close the main menu
            

        

        Submit a Complaint

        

        
        

        

        

        Consumer Education

        
        

        Back
    

        

        

        Resources for Yourself

        

        
    

        

        

        Resources for Helping Others

        

        
    

        

        

        Consumer Complaint Database

        

        
    

                 Money Topics
            

        

        

        Auto Loans

        

        
    

        

        

        Bank Accounts & Services

        

        
    

        

        

        Credit Cards

        

        
    

        

        

        Credit Reports & Scores

        

        
    

        

        

        Debt Collection

        

        
    

        

        

        Fraud & Scams

        

        
    

                 Money Topics
            

        

        

        Money Transfers

        

        
    

        

        

        Mortgages

        

        
    

        

        

        Payday Loans

        

        
    

        

        

        Prepaid Cards

        

        
    

        

        

        Reverse Mortgages

        

        
    

        

        

        Student Loans

        

        
    

                        Featured
                    

Explore guides to help you plan for big financial goals

                        Additional Resources
                    

Submit a Complaint

Tell Your Story

Order free brochures

Browse Ask CFPB

        

        

        Rules & Policy

        
        

        Back
    

                Rules & Policy Overview
            

        

        

        Final Rules

        

        
    

        

        

        Interactive Regulations

        

        
    

        

        

        Rules Under Development

        

        
    

        

        

        Notices and Opportunities to Comment

        

        
    

        

        

        Regulatory Agenda

        

        
    

        

        

        Petitions for Rulemaking

        

        
    

        

        

        Competition and Innovation

        

        
    

        

        

        Advisory Committees

        

        
    

        

        

        Enforcement

        
        

        Back
    

                Enforcement Overview
            

        

        

        Enforcement Actions

        

        
    

        

        

        Enforcement by the Numbers

        

        
    

        

        

        Investigatory Authority

        

        
    

        

        

        Warning Letters

        

        
    

        

        

        Payments to Harmed Consumers

        

        
    

        

        

        Industry Whistleblowers

        

        
    

        

        

        Compliance

        
        

        Back
    

                Compliance Overview
            

        

        

        Compliance Resources

        

        
    

        

        

        Advisory Opinion Program

        

        
    

        

        

        Consumer Financial Protection Circulars

        

        
    

        

        

        Supervision and Examinations

        

        
    

        

        

        Supervisory Highlights

        

        
    

        

        

        Supervisory Guidance

        

        
    

        

        

        Registration & Submission Programs

        

        
    

        

        

        Amicus Program

        

        
    

        

        

        Consumer Complaint Program

        

        
    

        

        

        Data & Research

        
        

        Back
    

                Data & Research Overview
            

        

        

        Reports

        

        
    

        

        

        Research Hub

        

        
    

        

        

        Consumer Complaint Database

        

        
    

        

        

        Mortgage Database (HMDA)

        

        
    

        

        

        Small Business Lending Database

        

        
    

        

        

        Public Data Inventory

        

        
    

        

        

        Consumer Credit Trends

        

        
    

        

        

        Mortgage Performance Trends

        

        
    

        

        

        Financial Well-Being Survey

        

        
    

        

        

        Credit Card Surveys & Agreements

        

        
    

        

        

        Prepaid Account Agreements

        

        
    

        

        

        Making Ends Meet Survey Data

        

        
    

                        Featured
                    

Help advance financial well-being

        

        

        News

        
        

        Back
    

        

        

        Press Releases

        

        
    

        

        

        Speeches & Op-eds

        

        
    

        

        

        Testimony

        

        
    

        

        

        Statements

        

        
    

        

        

        Blog

        

        
    

        

        

        Director’s Notebook

        

        
    

        

        

        Recent Updates

        

        
    

        

        

        Consumer Advisories

        

        
    

                            Español
                        

                            中文
                        

                            Tiếng Việt
                        

                            한국어
                        

                            Tagalog
                        

                            Pусский
                        

                            العربية
                        

                            Kreyòl Ayisyen
                        

(855) 411-2372

         
         
         
         

         

             / 

            
                
                    Newsroom
                

CFPB and American Express Reach Resolution to Address Discriminatory Card Terms in Puerto Rico and U.S. Territories
Consumers Harmed By Inferior Card Terms, Including Higher Interest Rates, Stricter Credit Cutoffs, and Less Debt Forgiveness, Receive Over $95 Million in Redress 

AUG 23, 2017

            Share & print
        

WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) today took action against two American Express banking subsidiaries for discriminating against consumers in Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and other U.S. territories by providing them with credit and charge card terms that were inferior to those available in the 50 states. American Express also discriminated against certain consumers with Spanish-language preferences. Over the course of at least ten years, more than 200,000 consumers were harmed by American Express’ discriminatory practices, which included charging higher interest rates, imposing stricter credit cutoffs, and providing less debt forgiveness. American Express has paid approximately $95 million in consumer redress during the course of the Bureau’s review and American Express’ review, and today’s order requires it to pay at least another $1 million to fully compensate harmed consumers.“Consumer financial protections are not confined within the 50 states,” said CFPB Director Richard Cordray. “American Express discriminated against consumers in Puerto Rico and the U.S. territories by providing them with less-favorable financial products and services. They have ceased this practice and are making consumers whole. In particular, because they self-reported the problem and fully cooperated with our investigation, no civil penalties are being assessed in this matter.”The American Express Company is a multi-bank holding corporation based in New York and a global provider of credit and charge cards, savings accounts, certificates of deposit, and travel services. American Express Centurion Bank and American Express Bank, FSB are both bank subsidiaries of American Express Company that administer American Express Company’s credit and charge card lines of business. These companies offered 45 credit cards and charge cards, which are similar to credit cards but require the full balance to be paid monthly, in its U.S. states market, including cards such as the American Express Green, Gold, and Platinum. In addition to managing cards offered in the 50 U.S. states, these two companies also manage cards offered in Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and other U.S. territories, which include Guam, American Samoa, and Northern Mariana Islands.Beginning in 2013, American Express self-reported to the Bureau differences between its Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands cards (collectively, Puerto Rico cards) and its cards offered in the 50 U.S. states (U.S. cards), as well as differences with respect to certain consumers with a Spanish-language preference. Through the course of a supervisory review, the Bureau concluded that, from at least 2005 to 2015, American Express’ Puerto Rico cards had different—and often worse—pricing, rebates, and promotional offers, underwriting, customer and account management services, and collections practices than its U.S. cards. The Bureau’s review did not find that American Express intentionally discriminated against its customers but rather found that these differences were the result of American Express’ card management structure, which had different business units overseeing its Puerto Rico cards and U.S. cards. These differences spanned the product lifecycle and included:Charging higher fees and interest rates and offering less advantageous promotional offers: One American Express bank charged Puerto Rico cardholders higher average interest rates and annual fees than similarly situated U.S. cardholders. American Express’ promotional offers (such as 0% introductory rates or waiving first year fees) for its Puerto Rico cards were also inferior. Similarly, for some residents of Puerto Rico and the U.S. territories who did get U.S. cards, including some small business cards, American Express gave less valuable promotional offers than those given to 50 U.S. states residents. These discriminatory pricing practices harmed over 200,000 cardholders. Imposing more stringent credit score cutoffs and lower credit limits: American Express applied stricter credit score requirements to its Puerto Rico cards than its comparable U.S. cards but did not apply more stringent credit score cutoffs to other U.S. geographies. As a result, American Express denied credit to certain Puerto Rico card applicants who would have been approved for comparable U.S. cards had they lived in the 50 U.S. states. American Express also imposed lower initial credit limits on certain Puerto Rico cards and thus provided less access to credit than to similarly situated U.S. cardholders. Additionally, one American Express bank outright denied Puerto Rican residents who applied for certain consumer and small business card products that were offered to U.S. residents. These discriminatory practices harmed over 35,000 consumers and small businesses.Requiring more money to settle debt: In using third-party debt collectors, one American Express bank settled card debt held by Puerto Rico cardholders on less favorable terms than debt held by its U.S. cardholders. On average, Puerto Rico cardholders had to pay 73 percent of the owed amount, compared with only 55 percent paid by U.S. cardholders. It also excluded certain Puerto Rico cardholders from letter campaigns with even more advantageous debt settlement offers through which U.S. cardholders were able to settle, on average, for 42 percent of the owed amount. American Express also did not provide certain collection offers and services that it gave to U.S. cardholders, including benefits for paying all or a part of their past due balance, to Puerto Rico cardholders and cardholders who requested Spanish language communication. These differential collection practices harmed over 53,000 cardholders in Puerto Rico and the U.S. territories, or who indicated a Spanish-language preference.Enforcement ActionThe Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act authorizes the CFPB to take action against creditors engaging in discrimination in violation of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA). ECOA prohibits creditors from discriminating against applicants and prospective applicants in credit transactions on the basis of characteristics such as race and national origin. Under the terms of the CFPB order released today, American Express is required to:Fully remediate harmed consumers: During the Bureau’s review, American Express provided monetary and non-monetary relief to 221,932 harmed consumers, resulting in approximately $95 million of remediation. American Express must review and verify the adequacy of any redress done prior to the CFPB order. The Bureau is ordering American Express to pay at least an additional $1 million to redress harmed consumers who have not yet been fully compensated, as required by the consent order.Not discriminate against residents of Puerto Rico, the U.S. territories, and consumers with a Spanish-language preference: American Express must develop and implement a comprehensive compliance plan to ensure that it provides credit and charge cards in a non-discriminatory manner to consumers in Puerto Rico, the U.S. territories, and customers in collection who prefer Spanish-language communications. American Express has already modified its management structure such that it manages its Puerto Rico cards under the same division as its U.S. cards. The compliance plan must include any necessary additional improvements to its compliance management system; compliance audit program; credit and charge card business structure, policies, and procedures; employee training procedures; and complaints procedures.The Bureau did not assess penalties based on a number of factors, including that American Express self-reported the violations to the Bureau, self-initiated remediation for the harm done to affected consumers, and fully cooperated with the Bureau’s review and investigation.The full text of the CFPB’s consent order is available here: https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/201708_cfpb_american-express_content-order.pdf 

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is a 21st century agency that implements and enforces Federal consumer financial law and ensures that markets for consumer financial products are fair, transparent, and competitive. For more information, visit www.consumerfinance.gov.

        Topics
    

•
Enforcement

•
Fair lending

•
Discrimination

•
Credit cards

•
Banking

•
Equal Credit Opportunity Act

                Press information
            

            If you want to republish the article
            or have questions about the content,
            please contact the press office.
        

                Go to press resources page
           

Page last modified Aug. 11, 2023
@

        
        03:08 PM EDT
        
    

View older versions of this page at our public archive.

            Stay informed
        

Subscribe to our email newsletter. We will update you on newsroom updates.

                Email address
            

Sign up

                See Privacy Act statement
            

        Subscribe to our RSS feed to get the latest content in your reader.
    
Subscribe to RSS

Back to top 

                            About Us
                        

                            Contact Us
                        

                            Careers
                        

                            Events
                        

                            Industry Whistleblowers
                        

                            CFPB Ombudsman
                        

                            FOIA
                        

                            Privacy
                        

                            Website Privacy Policy & Legal Notices
                        

                            Data
                        

                            Open Government
                        

                            Information Quality Guidelines
                        

                            Office of Minority and Women Inclusion
                        

                            Administrative Adjudication
                        

                            Plain Writing
                        

                            Accessibility
                        

                            Office of Civil Rights
                        

                            No FEAR Act & Cummings Act
                        

                            Tribal
                        

USA.gov 

Office of Inspector General 

Public Archive 

      An official website of the
      United States government