Clorox ordered to pay $8.25m in penalties for misleading 'ocean plastic' claims about certain GLAD products | ACCC

Skip to content
Skip to navigation
Skip to search

Top utilities

News centre

Contact

Our other sites

NASC

Scamwatch

Product Safety

Search

Menu

    Search
    (required)

 
Search 

Consumers

Expand submenu for "Consumers"

Buying products and services

Advertising and promotions

Competition and why it matters

Pricing

Problem with a product or service you bought

Stay protected

Debt

Specific products and activities

Petrol and fuel

Telecommunications and internet

Business

Expand submenu for "Business"

Selling products and services

Advertising and promotions

Pricing

Specific products and activities

Problem with a product or service you sold

Business operations and costs

Competition and exemptions

Compliance and enforcement

Mergers and acquisitions

Industry codes

Small business

By industry

Expand submenu for "By industry"

Regulated infrastructure

Regulatory projects

Agriculture

Banking and finance

Cars and vehicles

Childcare

Digital platforms and services

Energy

Food and groceries

Franchising

Insurance

Petrol and fuel

Postal services

Rail, shipping and ports

Telecommunications and internet

Travel and airports

Water

Inquiries and consultations

Expand submenu for "Inquiries and consultations"

Electricity market monitoring inquiry 2018-25

Gas inquiry 2017-30

Finalised inquiries

ACCC consultations

Consultation hub

Competition exemption consultations

ACCC submissions to external consultations

Consultative committees

Public registers

Expand submenu for "Public registers"

Browse public registers

Infringement notices register

Public warning notice register

Undertakings registers

Section 87B undertakings register

Section 93AA undertakings register

Section 163 undertakings register

General undertakings register

Access to services registers

Authorisations and notifications registers

Authorisations register

Collective bargaining notifications register

Exclusive dealing notifications register

Resale price maintenance notifications register

Certification trade marks register

Class exemptions register

Mergers and acquisitions registers

Acquisitions register

Public informal merger reviews register

Merger authorisations register

Merger authorisations direct to Tribunal 2007-17 register

Consumer data right exemptions register

Designated complaints register

Digital ID registers

Accredited entities register

Australian Government Digital ID System register

Gas registers

Conditional Ministerial exemptions for gas suppliers

Small gas supplier exemptions register

Gas price cap exemptions register

Price notifications register

Shipping investigations register

Telecommunications registers

Historical registers

About us

Expand submenu for "About us"

ACCC priorities

ACCC role and structure

Designated complaints

Freedom of information

National Anti-Scam Centre

Contact us or report an issue

News

ACCC news centre

Sign up to newsletters

Subscribe to media releases and speeches

Publications

Our campaigns

Careers

Current vacancies

Graduate opportunities

Working with us

Conferences and events

International relations

Other languages

 
Breadcrumb

Home
About us
News
Media releases

Listen

 

Clorox ordered to pay $8.25m in penalties for misleading 'ocean plastic' claims about certain GLAD products  

Date
14 April 2025

Topics

Advertising and promotions
Compliance and enforcement

The Federal Court today ordered Clorox Australia Pty Ltd (Clorox) to pay a total penalty of $8.25 million for making false or misleading representations to consumers that certain GLAD kitchen and garbage bags were partly made of recycled ‘ocean plastic’, following court action by the ACCC.
Clorox admitted that, between June 2021 and July 2023, it breached the Australian Consumer Law by representing on the packaging of its GLAD to be GREEN “50% Ocean Plastic Recycled” Kitchen Tidy Bags and Garbage Bags products that the products were made of at least 50 per cent recycled plastic waste collected from the ocean or sea, when this was not the case. More than 2.2 million products were supplied in this packaging over this period.
Rather, the products were made from about 50 per cent plastic waste which had been collected from communities in Indonesia with no formal waste management systems, situated up to 50 kilometres from a shoreline, and otherwise from non-recycled plastic, processing aid and dye.
“Claims about environmental benefits matter to many consumers and may impact their purchasing behaviour. When those claims are false or misleading, this is a serious breach of trust, as well as the Australian Consumer Law,” ACCC Chair Gina Cass-Gottlieb said.
“This is also a significant matter because consumers have limited or no ability to independently verify the accuracy of the claims made on packaging and it also disadvantages competitors who are accurately communicating their environmental credentials.”
“We consider this penalty is appropriate in this case where Clorox gave insufficient consideration to what ‘ocean plastic’ meant to an ordinary consumer, particularly in light of the blue colour and wave imaging on the packaging,” Ms Cass-Gottlieb said.
The Court held that these features “connoted a relationship between the Products and the ocean” and the “reference to ‘green’ on the Packaging connoted environmental-friendliness”, and that these were “important contextual matters in assessing the contravening conduct”.
It was also observed by the Court that “there is a particular societal harm that arises when conduct undermines consumers’ confidence in environmental claims”, adding that the “development of products that minimise adverse environmental impacts is beneficial” but “[e]nvironmental claims are useful for consumers only if they are accurate.”  
Clorox was also ordered to set up an Australian Consumer Law compliance program, publish a corrective notice on its website, and pay part of the ACCC’s legal costs, among other orders.
“While the ACCC encourages businesses to innovate and offer environmentally sustainable products, businesses need to be clear and accurate when making representations about them. We take allegations of greenwashing extremely seriously and will continue to monitor claims made by businesses and, where appropriate, will take enforcement action on misleading environmental claims,” Ms Cass-Gottlieb said.
Clorox cooperated with the ACCC during its investigation and the legal proceedings, made admissions, and agreed to make joint submissions with the ACCC to the Court, including on the appropriate total penalty and other orders.
Clorox discontinued the products in July 2023, after it became aware the ACCC had started investigating, but before the ACCC commenced these proceedings.
Examples of the misleading packaging
Between June 2021 and about 13 November 2022, the packaging of Clorox’s small, medium, and large Kitchen Tidy Bags included the statements ‘50% Ocean Plastic Recycled Bags’, and ‘Made using 50% Ocean Plastic*’ around an image of a wave, overlaid on an image of a blue coloured waste disposal bag.

The back of the packaging carried the following statements in smaller font:
‘These bags are made from 50% ocean recycled plastic, and have the trusted strength of Glad® to hold household waste on its way to landfill. Recycling ocean bound plastic reduces plastic pollution before it enters the ocean, helping to reduce pollution in waterways, save marine life and put an end to irresponsible waste.’
‘*Made using 50% ocean bound plastic that is collected from communities with no formal waste management system within 50 km of the shore line.’

These statements were insufficient to dispel the false or misleading ocean plastic representation.
From about 6 March 2022, Clorox began updating the packaging to include the statement ‘Made using 50% Ocean Bound Plastic*’ on the front of the packaging.

Clorox also updated the statements, which appeared in small font on the back of the Kitchen Tidy Bags’ packaging as follows (changes in bold):
‘These bags are made from 50% ocean bound recycled plastic, and have the trusted strength of Glad® to hold household waste on its way to landfill. Recycling ocean bound plastic reduces plastic pollution before it enters the ocean, helping to reduce pollution in waterways, making the seas safer for marine life, and helping to put an end to irresponsible waste.’
‘*Made using 50% ocean bound recycled plastic that is collected from communities with no formal waste management system within 50 km of the shore line.’

These changes were insufficient to dispel the false or misleading ocean plastic representation.
 Clorox discontinued the products in July 2023.
Garbage bags
Between about May 2022 and July 2023, the packaging of its large and extra-large Garbage Bags included the statements ‘50% Ocean Plastic Recycled Garbage Bags’, and ‘Made using 50% Ocean Bound Plastic*’ around an image of a wave, overlaid on an image of a blue coloured waste disposal bag.

The back of the packaging also carried two statements in smaller font, which sought to qualify the ocean plastic representation:
‘These strong garbage bags are made from 50% ocean bound recycled plastic, and have the trusted strength of Glad® to hold waste on its way to landfill. Recycling ocean bound plastic reduces plastic pollution before it enters the ocean, helping to reduce pollution in waterways, making the seas safer for marine life, and helping to put an end to irresponsible waste.’
‘*Made using 50% ocean bound recycled plastic that is collected from communities with no formal waste management system within 50 km of the shore line.’

Again, this information was insufficient to dispel the false or misleading ocean plastic representation.
Background
Clorox supplies various consumer goods, including garbage bags and kitchen tidy bags, under the GLAD brand. The products subject to these proceedings were available in major retailers including Woolworths and Coles.
In April 2024, the ACCC instituted proceedings in the Federal Court against Clorox Australia Pty Limited.
In December 2023, the ACCC released its guidance on making environmental claims for businesses, which explains business’ obligations under the Australian Consumer Law when they make environmental and sustainability claims. It also sets out what the ACCC considers to be misleading conduct and good practice when making such claims, to help businesses provide clear, accurate and trustworthy information to consumers about the environmental performance of their business.

 Release number
34/25

General enquiries

Submit an online enquiry to ask a question or you can 
make a report to help us understand where there are problems.

Media enquiries

media@accc.gov.au or 1300 138 917. The media team is only able to answer requests and questions from journalists. Please only call this number if you are a journalist.

Keep up-to-date on the latest media releases from the ACCC via email updates.Subscribe to media releases

ACCC Consumer Rights Facebook
 ACCC Twitter
 ACCC Instagram 
 ACCC YouTube
 ACCC Linkedin

The ACCC acknowledges the Traditional Custodians of the lands across Australia on which we live and work. We acknowledge their connection to this Country and pay our respect to Elders past, present and emerging.

Footer menu
ACCC © Commonwealth of Australia

Accessibility

Cookies

Disclaimer and copyright

Glossary

Vulnerability disclosure

Privacy