Colgate Heavy Metal Toothpaste Investigation

      Skip to main content
    

CASES
Tipline
1-888-381-2889

Main navigation

Cases

Attorneys

All Attorneys

Steve W. Berman, Managing Partner

Thomas M. Sobol, Executive

Robert B. Carey, Executive

France Team

U.K. Team

Newsroom

Press Releases

Blog

Practices

Anti-Terrorism

Antitrust Litigation

Automotive Litigation

Child Sexual Abuse

Civil & Human Rights Litigation

Class Action

Consumer Rights

Data Breach, Privacy & Cybersecurity

Emissions Litigation

Employment Litigation

Environmental Litigation

Governmental Representation

High Tech Litigation

Intellectual Property

Investor Fraud

Personal Injury Litigation

Pharmaceutical Fraud

Sexual Abuse & Harassment

Sports Litigation

Veterans & Military Servicemember Litigation

Whistleblower

About

About the Firm

Firm Story

Firm Timeline

In the Media

Our Advantage

Contingency Fee

Working at Hagens Berman

Cycling Teams

Success

Landmark Cases

Victories & Settlements

Awards & Recognition

Testimonials

Contact

Contact Us

Offices

Media Inquiries

Careers

0

  
  

        Colgate Toothpaste Heavy Metal Contamination
      

05/28/25 | Amended Complaint Filed
On May 28, 2025, Hagens Berman filed an amended complaint against Colgate-Palmolive, following additional testing of multiple Colgate-brand toothpaste products, all of which were found to have elevated heavy metal levels.
Read the amended complaint »

 
Did you buy toothpaste products from Colgate? These products, including some specifically targeted to children, may contain harmful heavy metals.

Case Status
Active

Case Caption
Brower v. Colgate-Palmolive Company

Attorneys

Steve W. Berman
Shelby R. Smith 
Meredith S. Simons

Practice AreasClass ActionConsumer Protection

Court

U.S. District Court Southern District of New York

Case Number
1:25-cv-03348

Defendant(S)

Colgate-Palmolive Company

File Date
04/22/2025

Phone
1-888-381-2889

Email
toothpaste@hbsslaw.com

Related Documents

Second Amended Complaint 08/07/25
Amended Complaint 05/28/25
Complaint 04/22/25

WHAT’S THE ISSUE?
Hagens Berman’s consumer rights team has filed a class-action lawsuit alleging the presence of potentially harmful heavy metals in Colgate-Palmolive toothpaste products. Attorneys believe toothpaste specifically made for and marketed to children and their parents may contain concerning levels of lead, arsenic, mercury and cadmium unbeknownst to consumers, putting children at risk of heavy metal-related negative health effects. Consumers who purchased Colgate toothpaste products without knowing they contained heavy metals may have rights through a class-action lawsuit.

HOW DO I KNOW IF I’M AFFECTED?
Hagens Berman is investigating all Colgate-Palmolive toothpaste products, which were allegedly found to have elevated levels of heavy metals, including lead, arsenic, mercury and cadmium. If you purchased any Colgate-Palmolive toothpaste products, you may be affected. Fill out the form to find out your rights.
ALLEGEDLY AFFECTED PRODUCTS
The filed complaint lists two specific Colgate products for allegedly high levels of harmful heavy metals. Investigations are ongoing for additional products, including those manufactured by other brands. If you have purchased one of the following products, fill out the form to find out your rights.

Colgate Watermelon Burst

Colgate Total Active Prevention

RISKS OF HEAVY METALS
Attorneys allege consumers have been left in the dark about the reality of Colgate’s toothpaste products and the potential health consequences. According to the World Health Organization, heavy metals, including lead and mercury, can cause negative health effects such as cancer, gastric and vascular disorders, liver, kidney and brain damage, miscarriages and reproductive disorders. Children are more susceptible to the negative impacts of heavy metals.
HEAVY METAL TOOTHPASTE INVESTIGATION EXPLAINED
A 2025 independent consumer goods study published lab test findings that toothpaste products allegedly contain elevated levels of harmful heavy metals, including lead, mercury, arsenic and cadmium. The study included household toothpaste brands like Colgate and Tom’s of Maine including Colgate Total Whitening Toothpaste and Colgate Watermelon Burst Toothpaste (for kids) all of which tested positive for elevated levels of lead (200 parts per billion and higher).
The toothpaste products, including those specifically made and sold for children, do not disclose that they contain potentially harmful levels of heavy metals. Given the recommended usage of the products for maintaining proper oral health and hygiene (brushing with toothpaste twice per day), attorneys believe children could be at risk of increased heavy metal exposure in these everyday products. Attorneys believe Colgate-Palmolive inadequately tested or never tested its products for heavy metals, and did not disclose the possibility of their presence in the products.
HOW CAN A CLASS-ACTION LAWSUIT HELP?
Colgate-Palmolive allegedly failed to inform the public of the potential harmful health impacts of its toothpaste products. Hagens Berman seeks to represent a class of consumers who purchased the allegedly affected products under the impression that Colgate-Palmolive products were safe and non-toxic. A class-action lawsuit seeks to level the playing field, bringing strength to collective action to change unlawful practices. Though these measures do not bring immediate relief, they are a time-tested method of holding companies accountable for wrongdoing.
TOP CONSUMER RIGHTS LAW FIRM
Hagens Berman is one of the most successful consumer rights litigation law firms in the U.S. and has achieved settlements valued at more than $320 billion for class members in lawsuits against manufacturers, retailers, automakers, big banks and others. The firm is currently leading multiple cases on behalf of customers involving health and safety impacts, and the firm has achieved many record-breaking victories in matters benefiting consumers. Your claim will be handled by attorneys experienced in consumer law.
NO COST TO YOU
In no case will any class member ever be asked to pay any out-of-pocket sum. In the event Hagens Berman or any other firm obtains a settlement that provides benefits to class members, the court will decide a reasonable fee to be awarded to the class’s legal team.

CASE TIMELINE

2025
Aug 7Second Amended Complaint FiledMay 28Amended Complaint FiledApr 22Complaint Filed

Hagens Berman purchases advertisements on search engines, social media sites and other websites. Transmission of the information contained or available through this website is not intended to create, and receipt does not constitute, an attorney-client relationship. If you seek legal advice or representation by Hagens Berman, you must first enter a formal agreement. This website is informational, not legal advice. Hagens Berman agrees to protect transmitted information in accordance with our Privacy Policy. This site includes attorney advertising and is regulated by the Rules of Professional Conduct (RPC).

RELATED CASES

PFAS Firefighter Turnout GearHagens Berman has filed a class-action lawsuit alleging that firefighters’ turnout gear contains (PFAS) “forever chemicals.MOREAmazon Basics Paper Products Eco-Friendly AdvertisingHagens Berman filed a class-action lawsuit alleging Amazon fails to disclose Amazon Basics paper products contribute to the devasting destruction in Canada’s boreal forest.MOREPFAS Gore-Tex GreenwashingHagens Berman filed a class-action lawsuit alleging that makers of Gore-Tex are knowingly selling products that contain environmentally harmful PFAS for consumer use.MORECharmin Toilet Paper Eco-Friendly AdvertisingHagens Berman has filed a consumer protection class-action lawsuit against Procter & Gamble, the maker of Charmin toilet paper, for allegedly making false claims about the environmental impact of its products.MORE

 

Contact

1-888-381-2889
Locations
Email Us
Submit a Case Tip
 
EMEA
HBSS France

Practice Areas

Anti-Terrorism

Antitrust Litigation

Automotive Litigation

Child Sexual Abuse Litigation

Civil & Human Rights

Class Action

Consumer Rights

Data Breach, Privacy & Cybersecurity

Emissions Litigation

Employment Litigation

Environmental Litigation

Governmental Representation

High Tech Litigation

Intellectual Property

Investor Fraud

Personal Injury

Pharmaceutical Fraud

Sexual Abuse & Harassment

Sports Litigation

Veterans & Military Servicemember Litigation

Whistleblower

The Firm

Attorneys

Cases

Newsroom

Blog

 

Copyright © 2020 Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions | Disclaimer | Cookie Declaration | Data Access Request 
Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Renew or Change your Cookie Consent | Change Your Consent | Revoke Your Consent
Attorney Advertising. This website is informational and does not constitute legal advice.
Prior results do not guarantee a similar result. This site is regulated by the Rules of Professional Conduct (RPC).