Colgate ordered to pay $18 million penalty in laundry detergent cartel proceedings | ACCC

Skip to content
Skip to navigation
Skip to search

Top utilities

News centre

Contact

Our other sites

NASC

Scamwatch

Product Safety

Search

Menu

    Search
    (required)

 
Search 

Consumers

Expand submenu for "Consumers"

Buying products and services

Advertising and promotions

Competition and why it matters

Pricing

Problem with a product or service you bought

Stay protected

Debt

Specific products and activities

Petrol and fuel

Telecommunications and internet

Business

Expand submenu for "Business"

Selling products and services

Advertising and promotions

Pricing

Specific products and activities

Problem with a product or service you sold

Business operations and costs

Competition and exemptions

Compliance and enforcement

Mergers and acquisitions

Industry codes

Small business

By industry

Expand submenu for "By industry"

Regulated infrastructure

Regulatory projects

Agriculture

Banking and finance

Cars and vehicles

Childcare

Digital platforms and services

Energy

Food and groceries

Franchising

Insurance

Petrol and fuel

Postal services

Rail, shipping and ports

Telecommunications and internet

Travel and airports

Water

Inquiries and consultations

Expand submenu for "Inquiries and consultations"

Electricity market monitoring inquiry 2018-25

Gas inquiry 2017-30

Finalised inquiries

ACCC consultations

Consultation hub

Competition exemption consultations

ACCC submissions to external consultations

Consultative committees

Public registers

Expand submenu for "Public registers"

Browse public registers

Infringement notices register

Public warning notice register

Undertakings registers

Section 87B undertakings register

Section 93AA undertakings register

Section 163 undertakings register

General undertakings register

Access to services registers

Authorisations and notifications registers

Authorisations register

Collective bargaining notifications register

Exclusive dealing notifications register

Resale price maintenance notifications register

Certification trade marks register

Class exemptions register

Mergers and acquisitions registers

Acquisitions register

Public informal merger reviews register

Merger authorisations register

Merger authorisations direct to Tribunal 2007-17 register

Consumer data right exemptions register

Designated complaints register

Digital ID registers

Accredited entities register

Australian Government Digital ID System register

Gas registers

Conditional Ministerial exemptions for gas suppliers

Small gas supplier exemptions register

Gas price cap exemptions register

Price notifications register

Shipping investigations register

Telecommunications registers

Historical registers

About us

Expand submenu for "About us"

ACCC priorities

ACCC role and structure

Designated complaints

Freedom of information

National Anti-Scam Centre

Contact us or report an issue

News

ACCC news centre

Sign up to newsletters

Subscribe to media releases and speeches

Publications

Our campaigns

Careers

Current vacancies

Graduate opportunities

Working with us

Conferences and events

International relations

Other languages

 
Breadcrumb

Home
About us
News
Media releases

Listen

 

Colgate ordered to pay $18 million penalty in laundry detergent cartel proceedings

Date
28 April 2016

Topics

Competition and exemptions
Food and groceries
Compliance and enforcement

The Federal Court has made orders that Colgate-Palmolive Pty Ltd (Colgate) pay total penalties of $18 million for contraventions of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (now called the Competition and Consumer Act 2010) (the Act), following admissions by Colgate in proceedings brought by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission.
Colgate admitted to entering understandings which limited the supply, and controlled the price, of laundry detergents, and agreed with the ACCC to joint submissions on penalty being put to the court.
The Court described the conduct as serious and the penalty as significant but proportionate.
“By ordering these substantial penalties, the Court has recognised the seriousness of this conduct, which affected the supply and pricing of laundry detergents, a consumer staple, ACCC Chair Rod Sims said.
“The information sharing understanding involved phone calls between senior managers of competing companies, many of which started as social calls, but turned to unlawful exchanges of pricing information.  Any contact between competitors carries risk and while discussion of price is particularly serious, there are many topics which may lead to an anticompetitive understanding.”
“This is the equal third largest penalty that the court has ordered for breaches of the competition provisions of the Act and is an indicator of how seriously the court views the conduct,” Mr Sims said.
“These penalties were based on Colgate’s turnover, under the current penalty regime for anticompetitive conduct. The ACCC regards this regime as a key tool in obtaining appropriate penalties for breaches of the Act.” Mr Sims also said.
Specifically, Colgate admitted that it made, and gave effect to, an understanding with Unilever Australia Limited (Unilever) and PZ Cussons Australia Pty Ltd whereby they agreed to cease supplying standard concentrate laundry detergents in early 2009 and supply only ultra concentrates from that time.
Colgate also admitted that it and Unilever shared sensitive market information, including information about when they would increase the price of their laundry detergents through telephone contact between Mr Ansell and senior Unilever executives, including Unilever’s sales director at the time.
The penalties ordered against Colgate comprise $12 million for the understanding to withhold supply, and $6 million for the information sharing understanding.
The ACCC has also, by consent, resolved its proceedings against Mr Paul Ansell, a former Colgate sales director, who has admitted to being knowingly concerned in the same conduct.
By consent, the Court also ordered that Mr Ansell be disqualified from managing corporations for seven years and pay a contribution of $75,000 towards the ACCC’s costs.
The Federal Court also made other orders by consent that Colgate update its trade practices compliance program and maintain that program for three years and pay a contribution of $450,000 towards the ACCC’s costs.
Background
In December 2013, the ACCC filed proceedings in the Federal Court against Colgate, Cussons, Woolworths and Mr Ansell. The ACCC alleged that Colgate, Cussons and Unilever made and gave effect to cartel and other anti-competitive arrangements to:

cease supplying standard concentrate laundry detergents in the first quarter of 2009 and supply only ultra concentrates from that time;
simultaneously transition their laundry detergents to ultra concentrates which met certain requirements; and
sell ultra concentrates for the same price per wash as the equivalent standard concentrated products and not pass on the cost savings to consumers.

The ACCC also alleged that Mr Ansell and Woolworths were knowingly concerned in these arrangements.
Unilever applied for immunity under the ACCC’s Immunity Policy for Cartel Conduct and consented to be named as the immunity applicant in this matter.
The ACCC’s case against Cussons and Woolworths is listed for hearing in June 2016. The ACCC is seeking pecuniary penalties, declarations, injunctions, compliance programs and costs.

 Release number
MR 64/16

General enquiries

Submit an online enquiry to ask a question or you can 
make a report to help us understand where there are problems.

Media enquiries

media@accc.gov.au or 1300 138 917. The media team is only able to answer requests and questions from journalists. Please only call this number if you are a journalist.

Keep up-to-date on the latest media releases from the ACCC via email updates.Subscribe to media releases

ACCC Consumer Rights Facebook
 ACCC Twitter
 ACCC Instagram 
 ACCC YouTube
 ACCC Linkedin

The ACCC acknowledges the Traditional Custodians of the lands across Australia on which we live and work. We acknowledge their connection to this Country and pay our respect to Elders past, present and emerging.

Footer menu
ACCC © Commonwealth of Australia

Accessibility

Cookies

Disclaimer and copyright

Glossary

Vulnerability disclosure

Privacy