Family Who Owns Krispy Kreme, Panera, Peet’s Coffee Acknowledges Nazi Past – NBC Bay Area

 

 

 

 

Skip to content

 

Main Navigation

Search

Search for:

Local
Weather
WE INVESTIGATE
Video
Sports
Newsletters
 

						Watch 24/7					

Create profile / Log in
Dashboard
Email preferences
Sign out

 
 

Trending

Netflix-Warner Bros. deal
⚽ World Cup draw
Highway 87 crash
Stabbing at hospital
Claude's cause of death
🍲 Nourishing Neighbors

Expand

 
 

United States 

		Family Who Owns Krispy Kreme, Panera, Peet's Coffee Acknowledges Nazi Past	

			In a four-page report, the Bild newspaper reported that documents uncovered in Germany, France and the U.S. reveal that Albert Reimann Sr. and Albert Reimann Jr. used Russian civilians and French POWs as forced laborers		

					By David Rising							•

Published March 26, 2019 •
Updated on March 26, 2019 at 6:20 pm 

BOOKMARKER

One of Germany's richest families, whose company owns a controlling interest in Krispy Kreme Doughnuts, Panera Bread, Pret a Manger and other well-known businesses, plans to donate millions to charity after learning about their ancestors' enthusiastic support of Adolf Hitler and use of forced laborers under the Nazis, according to a report Sunday.
In a four-page report, the Bild newspaper reported that documents uncovered in Germany, France and the U.S. reveal that Albert Reimann Sr. and Albert Reimann Jr. used Russian civilians and French POWs as forced laborers.
Family spokesman Peter Harf, who is one of two managing partners of the Reimann's JAB Holding Company, said recent internal research confirmed Bild's findings.
"It is all correct," he told the newspaper. "Reimann senior and Reimann junior were guilty ... they belonged in jail."
The father and son, who died in 1954 and 1984, did not talk about the Nazi era and the family had thought that all of the company's connection to the Nazis had been revealed in a 1978 report, Harf said.
But after reading documents kept by the family, the younger generation began to ask questions and commissioned a University of Munich historian in 2014 to examine the Reimann history more thoroughly, Harf said.
The expert presented his preliminary findings to the Reimann children and grandchildren, as well as Hanf, several weeks ago, he said.

U.S. & World

In Memoriam

										7 mins ago									

										Frank Gehry, the most celebrated architect of his time, dies at 96									

Supreme Court

										51 mins ago									

										Supreme Court will decide whether Trump's birthright citizenship order violates the Constitution									

"We were all ashamed and turned as white as the wall," he said. "There is nothing to gloss over. These crimes are disgusting."
In addition al Krispy Kreme Doughnuts and Pret a Manger, the Luxembourg-based JAB Holding Co. has controlling stakes in Keurig Green Mountain, Peet's Coffee &amp; Tea, Caribou Coffee Co., Panera Bread and other companies.
Many German companies have acknowledged using slave laborers during the Nazi era and have conducted their own independent investigations.
In 2000, the German government approved a 10 billion mark (about 5.1 billion euro) fund to provide compensation, with half the money coming from companies like Bayer, Siemens, Deutsche Bank, Daimler-Benz, Volkswagen, and AEG.
Bild reported that even before the Nazis came to power, the Reimanns donated to the paramilitary SS.
During World War II, the company used forced laborers in its industrial chemicals company. It was not clear how many were used overall, but Bild said in 1943, 175 forced laborers were being used, about 30 percent of its workforce.
In addition to Russian and other Eastern European civilians, the company used French prisoners of war — about whom Reimann Jr. complained in a letter to the Ludwigshafen mayor in 1940 that they weren't working hard enough.
After the war, the two were investigated by the occupying Allied powers and initially banned by the French from continuing their business activities but then had the judgment overturned by the Americans, Bild reported.
Harf said the family would donate 10 million euros ($11.3 million) to a not-yet-determined charity as a gesture, and once the historian's report is complete, it would be released to the public.
"The whole truth must be put on the table," he said.

Copyright The Associated Press

This article tagged under:
United StatesGermany

 

on now
12PM: NBC Bay Area News Midday

 

Trending Stories

										East Bay									

									Cal State East Bay gets record $50 million from MacKenzie Scott								

										San Ramon									

									Suspected DUI driver was going over 150 mph before deadly crash in San Ramon								

										Alameda County									

									Motorcyclist dies after crash in Alameda County								

										San Jose									

									‘Absolutely shattered': Family mourns woman, child killed in fiery Highway 87 crash								

										San Jose									

									Woman fatally struck by vehicle while crossing Highway 101 in San Jose								

 

Weather Forecast

 

 

Facebook

Instagram

TikTok

Youtube

Submit Tips for Investigations
Newsletters
About Us
Connect With Us
Our News Standards
NBC Sports Bay Area
Xfinity: Internet, TV, streaming, more
KNTV Public Inspection File
KNTV Accessibility
KNTV Employment Information
Send Feedback
FCC Applications
Terms of Service
NEW Privacy Policy
Your Privacy Choices
Advertise with us
CA Notice
Ad Choices

				Copyright © 2025 NBCUniversal Media, LLC. All rights reserved			

 Close Menu

Create profile / Log in
Dashboard

Search for:

					Local				

					Climate in Crisis				

					Making It In The Bay				

					Weather				

					Weather Alerts				

					State				

					U.S. & World				

					Sports				

					Bay Area Sports Calendar				

					WE INVESTIGATE				

					Submit a tip				

					Digital Series				

					NBC Bay Area Responds				

					Submit a consumer complaint				

					How To Explainers				

					Sand Hill Road				

					Newsletters				

					California Live				

					Entertainment				

					Video				

					About Us				

					Our News Standards				

					TV Schedule				

					Submit Photos and Video				

					Contests				

					Newsletters				

					TV Schedule				

					Our Apps				

					Cozi TV				

					NBC Sports Bay Area				

Follow Us

Facebook

Instagram

TikTok

Youtube

	Contact Us