FCA fines The Carphone Warehouse over £29m for insurance mis-selling | FCA

Skip to main content
Skip to search box

    Search
  

Search

Main menu

Main navigation

About us

Contact us

Get in touch by phone, via our online form, or by post:
 
Financial Conduct Authority
12 Endeavour Square
London E20 1JN
 
Contact us

What we do

About the FCA
Enhancing market integrity
How we work
Promoting competition
Protecting consumers

How we regulate

Authorisation
Enforcement
Handbook of rules and guidance
International standards and regulations
Supervision

How we operate

Complain about us, the PRA or the Bank of England (the regulators)
Corporate responsibility
Diversity, equity and inclusion: our progress
Environmental sustainability
Who we work with

Who we are

Chair
Chief Executive
Committees
Executive committees
FCA Board

Join us

Careers home
Early careers
Experienced professionals

Our strategy 2025 to 2030 
Our vision and priorities for the next 5 years.How we work

Close menu

Firms

Firms overview

Go to our dedicated section to see support for firms and our latest policy updates.
 
Find out more

Firm authorisation

Authorisation
Cancelling an authorisation or registration
Check if a firm is authorised
How to apply for authorisation or registration

Regulated firms

All firms
Claims management companies
Consumer credit firms
Electronic money and payment institutions
Funeral plan providers and intermediaries
Innovation Hub
Mutual societies

Close menu

Tasks for firms

Approved persons
Change in control
Fees and levies
Keeping your firm's information up to date
Principals and appointed representatives

Focus areas

Artificial intelligence
Consumer Duty
Cost of living: firm information
Cryptoassets
FCA support services for firms
Senior Managers and Certification Regime 

Consumer Duty 
We're hosting events to help firms prepare for the new rules. Sign up to hear about these and related communications.
Sign up

Close menu

Markets

Primary markets

Forms and checklists
Knowledge Base
Listing applications and cancellations
Regulatory Disclosures
The sponsor regime

Markets policy

About LIBOR transition
Data reporting services providers
Securitisation
UK EMIR
UK Securities Financing Transactions Regulation (UK SFTR)

Regulated markets

Benchmarks
Central securities depositories

Market abuse

How to report suspected market abuse as a firm or trading venue
How to report suspected market abuse as an individual
Market Abuse Regulation

Short selling

Exemptions from short-selling requirements
Notification and disclosure of net short positions
Short selling

Transaction reporting

Instrument reference data
Transaction reporting

Close menu

Consumers

Our Consumer section

See our dedicated section to help you stay up-to-date with financial services in the UK.
 
Find out more

Your rights

Considering a defined benefit pension transfer
FCA Firm Checker
High risk investments
How to check a firm or individual is authorised
Information for victims of financial crime
Your rights with financial services

Complaints

Car finance claims
Complain about a regulator
How to claim compensation if a firm fails
How to complain
Using claims management companies

Scams

Crypto investment scams
Fake FCA communications
Loan fee fraud
Pension scams
Protect yourself from scams

Report a firm

Misleading financial promotions
Report a payment services or e-money firm
Report a scam
Unfair contracts

FCA Warning List 
Find our most up-to-date warnings of firms and individuals running scams or operating without authorisation.
Read more

Close menu

News

Sign up to receive daily alerts on the warnings we issue

Receive new and updated warnings in a daily email.
 
Sign up

News

Blogs
News stories
Press releases
Speeches
Statements
Warnings

Media centre

Inside FCA podcasts
Media library

Events

See all FCA events

Close menu

Publications

Policy and guidance
Corporate documents
Notices and decisions
Data
Research
Forms

Open consultations 
See our current open consultations and the deadlines for giving feedback.
Respond to our consultations

Close menu

Home
FCA fines The Carphone Warehouse over £29m for insurance mis-selling

 

FCA fines The Carphone Warehouse over £29m for insurance mis-selling

Press Releases
First published: 						13/03/2019

Last updated: 20/12/2019

The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has fined The Carphone Warehouse £29,107,600 for failings that led to the mis-selling of ’Geek Squad’, a mobile phone insurance and technical support product. This follows an FCA investigation which stemmed from whistleblowing reports.

The FCA found The Carphone Warehouse failed to give its sales consultants the right training to give suitable advice to customers purchasing Geek Squad. In particular, sales consultants were not trained adequately to assess a customer’s needs to determine whether Geek Squad was suitable. They were trained to recommend Geek Squad to customers who already had cover, for example through their home insurance or bank accounts. 
During the period under investigation (1 December 2008 to 30 June 2015), The Carphone Warehouse made regulated sales of Geek Squad policies worth over £444.7 million. A high proportion of these policies were subsequently cancelled early. For example, in January 2014, 35% of policies were cancelled within the first 3 months from inception. High cancellation rates are an indicator of a risk of mis-selling which The Carphone Warehouse failed to properly consider. 
Mark Steward, executive director of Enforcement and Market Oversight at the FCA, said:
'The Carphone Warehouse and its staff persuaded customers to purchase the Geek Squad product which in some cases had little to no value because the customer already had insurance cover. The high-level of cancellations should have been a clear indicator to the management of mis-selling.'
'Without whistleblowers coming forward these practices may never have come to light. In the past few years, whistleblowers have contributed critical intelligence to the enforcement actions we have taken against firms and individuals.'
The Carphone Warehouse sales staff were trained in 'spin selling', where the focus was on persuading customers to purchase Geek Squad and on selling the features of the product. No training was provided on how to respond when customers gave answers indicating the policy may not be appropriate. Sales staff were trained in ’objection handling’, with the focus being on overcoming customer objections rather than assessing whether the product was suitable for the customer. Customers who said they might have a similar product or wanted to think about it were advised to purchase Geek Squad and cancel in 14 days. This created a risk that customers would purchase insurance that they did not need and would be exposed to the risk of paying for it if they did not cancel in time.
When customers complained about the sale of Geek Squad, The Carphone Warehouse failed to properly investigate and fairly consider their complaints. This resulted in valid complaints not being upheld in circumstances where the product had been mis-sold. As a result, management did not have an accurate impression of indicators of mis-selling.
The FCA therefore found that The Carphone Warehouse breached Principle 3, Principle 6 and Principle 9 of the FCA’s Principles for Businesses between 1 December 2008 and 30 June 2015.
The firm did not dispute the FCA’s findings and exercised its right, under the FCA’s partly contested case process, to ask the FCA’s Regulatory Decisions Committee to assess the appropriate level of sanction. The firm’s agreement to accept the FCA’s findings meant it qualified for a 30% discount. Otherwise, the FCA would have imposed a financial penalty of £41,582,300.
Customers of The Carphone Warehouse who think that they may have been mis-sold Geek Squad should contact the firm directly:

by telephone: 0800 049 6190
by post: Geek Squad, PO Box 358, Southampton, SO30 2PJ
online at: https://www.teamknowhow.com/help-and-support/complaint

If customers are not content with the firm’s response, they may then refer the matter to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Notes to editors

Final Notice: The Carphone Warehouse Limited
The firm has been part of the listed Dixons Carphone group since August 2014.
The FCA’s Regulatory Decisions Committee (RDC) is an FCA Board Committee that is operationally separate from the rest of the FCA. The FCA Board appoints the RDC Chair and members, who are drawn from across a spectrum of business, consumer and industry backgrounds.
On 1 April 2013, the FCA became responsible for the conduct supervision of all regulated financial firms and the prudential supervision of those not supervised by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA).
On 1 October 2018, new rules came in to implement the Insurance Distribution Directive. The new rules state that where an insurance firm is using a retailer to sell their products, the firm will need to make sure that that retailer complies with certain standards (such as always acting in the customer’s best interests and making sure the product meets the customer’s needs). The firm will need to continually monitor the retailer’s distribution activities to ensure that they remain an appropriate way for the insurer to get its products to customers. These requirements will apply, even if the retailer is exempt from FCA authorisation (as is commonly the case with electrical goods retailers).
The FCA has an overarching strategic objective of ensuring the relevant markets function well. To support this it has 3 operational objectives: to secure an appropriate degree of protection for consumers; to protect and enhance the integrity of the UK financial system; and to promote effective competition in the interests of consumers.
Find out more information about the FCA.

Was this page useful?

Yes 

No 

What can we do to improve pages like this?	

What did you find helpful?

Submit Feedback

Leave this field blank

Print Page

Linkedin

Twitter

            Share page
          

            						Media Centre
			
          

Media centre

Accessibility

Complain about us

Copyright notice

Corporate responsibility

Cymraeg

Freedom of information

Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement

Privacy

Sitemap

Translated languages

Social

LinkedIn

RSS Feed

Twitter

Registers and Systems
Registers and Systems

My FCA

Financial Services Register

FCA Handbook

Connect

RegData

Online Invoicing System

Careers
Careers

Careers home

Early careers

Experienced professionals

Contact
Contact

FCA Head Office
12 Endeavour Square
London E20 1JN
Contact us

Copyright © 2025 FCA. All rights reserved.

Back to top

Company no. 01920623