FTC Investigation of Ad Claims that Rice Krispies Benefits Children's Immunity Leads to Stronger Order Against Kellogg

Federal Trade Commission
Protecting America's Consumers

Skip to Main Content

 

Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Advanced Search
En Español

Home

About the FTC
Commissioners
Offices & Bureaus
Inspector General
Jobs
FOIA
Budget & Performance

News

About Public Affairs
Public Events
Speeches
Testimony Webcasts
Blogs
Reporter ResourcesNoticias en Español

Competition

About BC
Premerger Notification
Enforcement
Guidance
Advocacy Filings
En Español

Consumer Protection

About BCP
Consumer Information
Business Information
Resources
File a Complaint
Protección del Consumidor en Español

 Economics

About BE
Research
Events
Presentations
Educational Materials
Best Practices 
Economía en Español

General Counsel
 FOIA
Policy Studies 
Amicus Briefs
Legal Authority
Statutes
About the Office of General Counsel

Actions

Rules DocumentsCases (by name)
All Actions (by date)
About the Office of the Secretary

Congressional

Newsletter
Senate/House Links
Appropriations
Testimony
About Congressional Relations

Policy

Reports
Advocacy Filings
About Policy Planning

International

Technical Assistance
Foreign Authorities
Cooperation Agreements
Consumer Protection
Competition
About Intl. Affairs

For Release: 06/03/2010	
FTC Investigation of Ad Claims that Rice Krispies Benefits Children's Immunity Leads to Stronger Order Against Kellogg
Leading cereal maker Kellogg Company has agreed to new advertising restrictions to resolve a Federal Trade Commission investigation into questionable immunity-related claims for Rice Krispies cereal.  This is the second time in the last year that the FTC has taken action against the company.
 “We expect more from a great American company than making dubious claims – not once, but twice – that its cereals improve children’s health,” said FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz. “Next time, Kellogg needs to stop and think twice about the claims it’s making before rolling out a new ad campaign, so parents can make the best choices for their children.”
Kellogg has agreed to expand a settlement order that was reached last year after the FTC alleged that the company made false claims that its Frosted Mini-Wheats cereal was “clinically shown to improve kids’ attentiveness by nearly 20%.”

        At about the same time that Kellogg agreed to stop making these kinds of false claims in its cereal ads, the company began a new advertising campaign promoting the purported health benefits of Rice Krispies, according to the FTC.  On product packaging, Kellogg claimed that Rice Krispies cereal “now helps support your child’s immunity,” with “25 percent Daily Value of Antioxidants and Nutrients – Vitamins A, B, C, and E.”  The back of the cereal box stated that “Kellogg’s Rice Krispies has been improved to include antioxidants and nutrients that your family needs to help them stay healthy.”

        Under the original settlement order covering Frosted Mini-Wheats, Kellogg was barred from making claims about the benefits to cognitive health, process, or function provided by any cereal or any morning food or snack food unless the claims were true and substantiated. 
 The expanded order against Kellogg prohibits the company from making claims about any health benefit of any food unless the claims are backed by scientific evidence and not misleading. 

        The Commission vote to modify the 2009 settlement order was 5-0, with Commissioner Julie Brill and Chairman Jon Leibowitz issuing a separate joint concurring statement.  “As a trusted, long-established company with a presence in millions of American homes, Kellogg must not shirk its responsibility to do the right thing when it advertises the food we feed our children,” they wrote in the statement, which can be found on the FTC’s website and as a link to this press release at:  http://www.ftc.gov/os/caselist/0823145/100602kelloggstatement.pdf.
 Copies of the expanded order and related documents can be found on the FTC’s website and also are available from the FTC’s Consumer Response Center, Room 130, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20580. 

NOTE:  A consent agreement is for settlement purposes only and does not constitute an admission of a law violation.  When the Commission issues a consent order on a final basis, it carries the force of law with respect to future actions.  Each violation of such an order may result in a civil penalty of up to $16,000.
 The Federal Trade Commission works for consumers to prevent fraudulent, deceptive, and unfair business practices and to provide information to help spot, stop, and avoid them.  To file a complaint in English or Spanish, visit the FTC’s online Complaint Assistant or call 1-877-FTC-HELP (1-877-382-4357).  The FTC enters complaints into Consumer Sentinel, a secure, online database available to more than 1,800 civil and criminal law enforcement agencies in the U.S. and abroad.  The FTC’s website provides free information on a variety of consumer topics. 

MEDIA CONTACT: 
Mitchell J. Katz
  Office of Public Affairs

          202-326-2161
STAFF CONTACT:
Heather Hippsley or Shira Modell
Bureau of Consumer Protection

          202-326-3285 or -3116 

   (FTC Docket No. C-4262)
   (Kellogg.final) 

Related Items:

In the Matter   of Kellogg Company, a corporation.
        FTC File No. 082 3145

Concurring Statement of Commissioner Julie Brill
  and Chairman Jon Leibowitz

Exhibit A

Front Label
Back Label

About Us
Contact Us
Jobs
Recovery Act 
No FEAR Act Data
Performance and Accountability Report
FOIA
Site Map

Website Policies
Accessibility
Privacy Policy
Browser Plug-ins
Related Sites
USA.gov
For FTC Staff

Last Modified: Thursday, June  3, 2010