Hunt Saboteurs Association call for boycott of AXA insurance | Ethical Consumer

      Skip to main content
    

Ethical Consumer

      Explore ethical ratings of 40,000+ brands and products
    

Search

            Search

            Sign in 

Sign in
Username or email address

Password

Forgot your password ?
            Sign in
New here? Subscribe now

      Subscribe
    

Main navigation

Menu
Home

Energy

Fashion & Clothing

Food & Drink

Health & Beauty

Home & Garden

Money

Retailers

Technology

Travel

Energy

    Guides to ethical energy suppliers, home energy options, alternative technologies. We also investigate  tariffs, carbon offsets and fracking.
  
Energy guides, news & features
 
Shopping Guides

Batteries

Boilers

Energy Suppliers

Heat Pumps

Solar Panels

Fashion and Clothing

    Guides to help you find ethical brands and retailers. We also cover issues such as fast fashion, sustainable fabrics, recycling and supply chains.
  
Clothing guides, news and features
 
Shopping Guides

Ethical Clothing Brands

Ethical T-shirts

High Street Clothes Shops

Jeans

Luxury and Designer Clothing

Shoes

Sportswear

Trainers

Outdoor Clothing

Outdoor Clothing Shops

Underwear

Food & Drink

    Guides for finding ethical and environmentally friendly food brands.  We also cover issues such as palm oil, soya, low carbon diets and labels.
  
Food & Drink guides, news and features
 
Shopping Guides

Baked Beans

Beans and pulses

Bananas

Beer & Lager

Biscuits

Bread

Butter & Spreads

Cat Food

Cereal

Chocolate

Coconut Oil

Coffee Shops

Coffee

Cooking Oil

Dog Food

Easter Eggs

Eggs and Vegan Egg Alternatives

Ethical Food Supermarkets

Fast Food Chains

Fruit Juice

Herbal Teas

Honey

Meat-free Alternatives

Milk

Mince pies

Olive Oil

Restaurant Chains

Rice

Soft Drinks

Supermarkets

Tea

Vegan & Plant Milks

Vegan Cheese

Vitamins & Supplements

Health & Beauty

    Guides to help you find the most responsible companies and brands. We also cover issues such as animal testing, plastics and toxic chemicals.
  
Health & Beauty guides, news and features
 
Shopping Guides

Deodorant

Make Up

Nappies

Over the counter medicines

Perfume & Aftershave

Sanitary Products

Shampoo

Shower Gel

Skincare

Soap - bars and handwash

Sunscreens

Toothpaste

Vitamins & Supplements

Home & Garden

    Guides to the greenest way to wash, clean, cook and more. We also cover issues from toxic chemicals, sustainability, permaculture and recycling. 
  
Home & Garden guides, news and features
 
Shopping Guides

Binoculars

Cat Food

Coffee Makers

Dishwasher Detergent

Dishwashers

Dog Food

Fridge & Freezers

Gas & Electric Cookers

Home Insurance

Household Cleaners

Kettles

Laundry Detergents

Microwaves

Paint

Toilet Cleaners

Toilet Paper

Vacuum Cleaners

Washing Machines

Washing-up Liquid

Money

    Guides to banking, saving, investing, insurance, mortgages and pensions. We also cover issues such as climate change, tax, pay and carbon divesting.
  
Money & Finance guides, news and features

Shopping Guides

Banking - Business Banking

Banking - Current Accounts

Banking - Savings Accounts

Ethical Investment Funds

Fossil Free Investment Funds

ISA - Cash ISAs

ISA - Innovative Finance ISAs

ISA - Stocks and Shares ISAs

Insurance - Car

Insurance - Home

Insurance - Pet

Insurance - Travel

Mortgages

Pensions

Retailers

    Guides to online and high street retailers from books to supermarkets. We discover independent ethical retailers and look closely at Amazon.
  
Retailer guides, news and features
 
Shopping Guides

Bookshops

Coffee Shops

Delivery Companies

Ethical Clothes Shops

Ethical Food Supermarkets

Ethical Online Retailers

High Street Clothes Shops

Outdoor Clothing Shops

Supermarkets

Technology

    Guides to electronic devices, broadband and phone networks. We also cover issues such as e-waste, privacy, big tech and reducing our carbon footprint.
  
Technology guides, news and features
 
Shopping Guides

Broadband

Desktop computers

Digital Cameras

Email Providers

Laptops

Mobile Phone Networks

Mobile Phones

Music Streaming

Streaming Services

Tablets and e-readers

Televisions

Video Conferencing

Travel

    Guides to bike, cars, petrol and outdoor pursuits. We also cover greenwashing, boycotts, the climbing industry, tourism and other issues.
  
Travel & Transport guides, news and features
 
Shopping Guides

Bikes & Electric Bikes

Car Insurance

Cars and electric cars

Petrol & Diesel

Travel booking companies

Travel Insurance

      You are in:
    

Home

Ethical Money

                  Hunt Saboteurs Association call for boycott of AXA insurance
              

Hunt Saboteurs Association call for boycott of AXA insurance

Image courtesy of The Hunt Saboteurs Association 
 

 

Share this page:

Thursday 8th of July 2021

Lee Moon of The Hunt Saboteurs Association explains why they are calling for a boycott of AXA insurance.

As first revealed by Hunting Leaks, AXA provides legal fee insurance to The Hunting Office. This Office is responsible for the administration of hunting across the UK. The policy covers Hunting Act offences, and violence towards hunt saboteurs. When members of hunts are arrested, interviewed by the police or have to attend court, their legal costs are covered by AXA.
A leaked document on the Hunting Leaks website showed that in the first year of the policy in 2014/15 actually saw Axa lose money due to the high number of claims. AXA was paid insurance premiums of £181,815, and insurance claims amounted to £267,887.
AXA's policy states that in order to make a claim the hunts must provide for example “Photographic and / or Video evidence “ to show that they are “Hunting within the Law”. So if a hunt is unable to provide evidence of legal trail laying they won't be covered by the policy. This point was stressed in leaked Hunting Office webinars where the panel stressed the importance of overt trail laying, not because the hunts are actually hunting legally but because they need to try and convince anyone watching, including the police and their own insurance company, that they are.
Many AXA customers have been horrified to discover what their insurance company is involved in. Since we [The Hunt Saboteurs Association] launched our campaign hundreds of people have contacted us to tell us that they won't be renewing their AXA insurance policy. Demonstrations have been held across the country highlighting AXA's participation in animal abuse and their social media channels have been bombarded by disgusted customers.
AXA’s only public response has been on Twitter in April 2021 where they said:
“Thanks for bringing this to our attention. We will look into the points raised. While AXA is committed to a confidential relationship with our customers, we are mindful of any concerns expressed. We only support businesses and individuals who operate within the law.”

Without insurance all legal costs for every Hunting Act arrest, court case or conviction or any act of violence or public (dis)order would have to come either directly from a hunt’s own funds or from a central pot that all hunts contribute towards. If it comes from a central pot then hunts who face less legal action may well wonder why they are paying out for others.
AXA’s insurance provision is critical in allowing hunting to continue in the UK. Without insurance policies, hunts could not afford to risk being caught hunting wild animals and abusing those who try to stop them.
We believe the decision for AXA is clear, not only morally but also financially – they must axe the hunts.
An AXA spokesperson responded to this article:
“While AXA is committed to a confidential relationship with all our customers, we are also mindful of any concerns that are raised to us. We would only work with businesses and individuals who operate within the law and, on all of our insurance policies, illegal activity in any walk of life would invalidate any claim. Additionally, AXA would take action if we receive evidence that one of our customers has been falsifying claims information.”

Campaigns and Boycotts page
Product guide to ethical home insurance
Product guide to ethical car insurance
Product guide to ethical travel insurance
Why buy vegan?
10 ethical brands owned by unethical companies

Subscribe to Ethical Consumer
All the information and inspiration you need to join thousands of others and revolutionise the way you shop, save and live. Full online access to our unique shopping guides, ethical rankings and company profiles. The essential ethical print magazine.

6 issues of Ethical Consumer Magazine in print and/or digital format
12 months full access to all Shopping Guides and Company Profiles
Special discount offers from selected Best Buy companies.
Digital versions of our entire catalogue of back issues.

Subscribe

Share this page:

    We always check the ethics of our advertisers
  

Sign up now to our email newsletter

Email Address

First Name

Last Name

            Sign up

 

Holding global financial businesses to account

 

  Ryan Brightwell, Director of Research at the Dutch NGO BankTrack, reports from the front line.
 
      Read more  →

 

How your bank could be funding global deforestation and climate disaster

 

  UK banks are fuelling deforestation around the world. Martha Marcuson, Senior Communications Advisor at Global Witness, explores the problem and what can be done to stop financial institutions funding the destruction of climate-critical forests.
Also see our guide to ethical banking. 
 
      Read more  →

 

Q & A with Ethex

 

  We caught up with Lisa Ashford, CEO of Ethex and Energise Africa, ahead of Ethical Consumer Week 2021 to hear about what they’ve got in store for the week and learn a little more about the world of ethical finance.
 
      Read more  →

 

The OECD and an end of the era of tax havens?

 

  Nabila Ahmed looks at Biden's proposed new 15% global minimum tax rate and what it means for Ethical Consumer's Covid Tech Tax Campaign and Amazon Boycott.
 
      Read more  →

See all articles →

Free Issue
Sign up now to our email newsletter for a free digital copy of Ethical Consumer magazine.

Sign up to our email newsletter

            About Us
          

About Ethical Consumer 

Print Magazine

Consultancy Services

Ratings System

Our Mission

Our People

Members Area

Working for Ethical Consumer

            Campaigns
          

Boycotts List

Amazon Boycott 

Palestine and Israel

Challenging Corporate Power

Climate Gap 

Lush Prize

Lush Spring Prize

Agricultural workers in Spain

            Contact us
          

Contact Us

Advertising

Media Enquiries

Best Buy Label

Help

Newsletter sign up

            Connect with us
          

Twitter

Facebook

YouTube

Instagram

Instagram

Email

            Copyright: Ethical Consumer Research Association Ltd, 2025
          

Content Usage
Privacy Policy
Website T&Cs
Accessibility Statement