Kellogg to Restrict Ads to Settle U.S. Investigation - NYTimes.com

Try Times Reader 2.0
Log In
Register Now

Home Page
Today's Paper
Video
Most Popular
Times Topics

Search All NYTimes.com

Business Day

World
 
U.S.
 
N.Y. / Region
 
Business
 
Technology
 
Science
 
Health
 
Sports
 
Opinion
 
Arts
 
Style
 
Travel
 
Jobs
 
Real Estate
 
Autos

Global
DealBook
Markets
Economy
Energy
Media
Personal Tech
Small Business
Your Money

Kellogg to Restrict Ads to Settle U.S. Inquiry Into Health Claims for Cereal
 By SEWELL CHAN
 Published: June 3, 2010

Sign In to E-Mail

Print

Reprints

WASHINGTON  — Maybe it  should have just stuck with Snap, Crackle and Pop.		

Add to Portfolio

Kellogg Company

Go to your Portfolio »

The Kellogg Company has agreed to advertising restrictions to resolve an investigation into  its claims about the health benefits of its Rice Krispies cereal, the Federal Trade Commission  said on Thursday.		
The agreement expands on a settlement order that Kellogg agreed to last July over  similar claims that another cereal, Frosted Mini-Wheats, was “clinically shown to improve kids’ attentiveness by nearly 20 percent.”		
The commission acted against Kellogg  as public health researchers and obesity  opponents have intensified their challenges to the marketing of sugary foods.		
“We expect more from a great American company than making dubious claims  —  not once, but twice  —  that its cereals improve children’s health,” Jon Leibowitz, the chairman of the F.T.C., said in a statement.		
Marion Nestle, a nutrition professor at New York University, said it was unusual for the commission to act in a case involving health claims made for food products, an area traditionally  handled by the Food and Drug Administration.		
Last summer, Kellogg unveiled product packaging  claiming that  Rice Krispies “now helps support your child’s immunity” and that the cereal “has been improved to include antioxidants and nutrients that your family needs to help them stay healthy.”		
In the order covering Frosted Mini-Wheats, Kellogg had agreed to stop making claims about benefits to “cognitive health, process or function provided by any cereal or any morning food or snack food” unless the claims were true and substantiated.		
The new expanded order bars the company from making “claims about any health benefit of any food unless the claims are backed by scientific evidence and not misleading.”		
In a statement, Kellogg, based in Battle Creek, Mich., said it had “a long history of responsible advertising,” but did not specifically address the latest accusations.		
“We stand behind the validity of our product claims and research, so we agreed to an order that covers those claims,” the company said. “We believe that the revisions to the existing consent agreement satisfied any remaining concerns.”		
Jennifer L. Harris, a psychologist who studies food marketing at the Rudd Center for Food Policy and Obesity at Yale, said the agreement highlighted the need to tighten requirements so that all health-related claims on packaging are based on scientific evidence, which is not the case now.		
“As parents become more health-conscious, these claims try to make high-sugar cereals healthier than they really are,” she said.		
A   study by the Rudd Center found that the least healthful cereals were the ones most heavily marketed to children, and that children were exposed to more advertising for highly sweetened cereals than for any other kind of packaged food.		 
William Neuman contributed reporting from New York.

 

 

A version of this article appeared in print on June 4, 2010, on page B3 of the New York edition.

 

Sign In to E-Mail

Print

Reprints

Times Reader 2.0: Daily delivery of The Times - straight to your computer.  Subscribe for just $4.62 a week.

 

Past CoverageADVERTISING; As the Ball Drops, Dieting Companies Take Positions Nearby (December 31, 2007)FIVE DAYS; Some Curbs Put on the Appetites for Debt and Sugar (June 16, 2007)FIVE DAYS; KELLOGG SETTLEMENT (June 16, 2007)Kellogg to Phase Out Some Food Ads to Children (June 14, 2007)

Related Searches

Kellogg Company

Get E-Mail Alerts

Diet and Nutrition

Get E-Mail Alerts

Cereals

Get E-Mail Alerts

Suits and Litigation

Get E-Mail Alerts

Advertise on NYTimes.com

MOST POPULAR - BUSINESS

E-Mailed
Blogged
Viewed

Wal-Mart to Offer Its Workers a College Program
Bucks: Getting the Most Euros for Your Buck
Report Warned Wal-Mart of Risks Before Bias Suit
McDonald’s to Recall Glasses, Citing Cadmium
Collect Now, or Later? Timing Your Social Security Benefits
Critics Question Study Cited in Health Debate
A Jobless Rate Still Unaffected by New Hiring
Job Data Casts Pall Over Economic Recovery
Your Money: Student Debt and a Push for Fairness
Your Money: Placing the Blame as Students Are Buried in Debt

Go to Complete List »

Owners Stop Paying Mortgage ... and Stop Fretting About It
Decades of Economic Gains Vanish for Blacks in Memphis
U.S. Added 431,000 Jobs in May, Mostly From Census
Jobs Bill vs. Deficit, a Showdown in the Senate
Data Used to Justify Health Savings Can Be Shaky
Disney Puts Tickets on a Facebook Site
As Stimulus Money Vanishes, So Do Jobs for Youth
Wal-Mart to Offer Its Workers a College Program
Europe's Banks at Risk From Slower Growth, Central Bank Says
S.E.C. Is Said to Seek to Bar Wall St. Financier

Go to Complete List »

Job Data Casts Pall Over Economic Recovery
U.S. Indexes Fall Sharply on Jobs Data
McDonald’s to Recall Glasses, Citing Cadmium
A Jobless Rate Still Unaffected by New Hiring
Report Warned Wal-Mart of Risks Before Bias Suit
Wal-Mart to Offer Its Workers a College Program
Kellogg to Restrict Ads to Settle U.S. Inquiry Into Health Claims for Cereal
Getting the Most Euros for Your Buck
What Happens to Items Left on Planes
Google to Give Governments Street View Data

Back-to-basics yoga in Nepal
Also in Travel »

Meet the new Frugal Traveler
Hotels: fewer deals but low rates

 

Advertisements	    

Find your dream home withThe New York Times Real Estate
 

Fan The New York Times on Facebook
 

Watch today's top videos
 

See the news in the making.  Watch TimesCast, a daily news video.
 

 

            Inside NYTimes.com        

N.Y. / Region »

Backing a Candidate, With Tuna in Every Pot

Opinion »
Divorce: It's Not Always About You
A Room for Debate forum about the Gores’ separation and the failure of long-term marriages.

Arts »

Senator Schumer a Fan of Brooklyn Concert Series

Real Estate »

How to Be a Brainy Renter

World »

Political Survivor Inherits Japan’s Troubles

Opinion »

Dot Earth: Why Cameron Is Diving Deep on Gulf Oil

Business »

Airlines Work to Catch Up to the Digital Age

Opinion »

Letters: Day After Day, the Agony in the Gulf

Fashion & Style »

Iman: Not Just Another Pretty Face

Opinion »
Op-Ed: Nearly Perfect in Detroit
Paul Clemens on how a botched baseball call became a feel-good experience.

U.S. »

A Disaster Reaches Beyond the Gulf Coast

Theater »

Honey, I’ve Got a Scene to Do. Be Right Back.

Home

World

U.S.

N.Y. / Region

Business

Technology

Science

Health

Sports

Opinion

Arts

Style

Travel

Jobs

Real Estate

Autos

Back to Top
 
Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company
Privacy
Terms of Service
Search
Corrections
RSS
First Look
Help
Contact Us
Work for Us
Advertise
Site Map