Lenovo Inc. Pays Employee $108,152 After Violating Family and Medical Leave Act at North Carolina Headquarters | U.S. Department of Labor

      Skip to main content
    

An official website of the United States government.
Here’s how you know

Here’s how you know

The .gov means it’s official.
 Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a federal government site.
                        

The site is secure.
 The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely.
                        

U.S. Department of Labor

FAQ
Contact Us

Menu

Search

 submenu

TOPICS

Back

Topics

Disability Resources

Disaster Recovery Assistance

Elaws

Equal Employment Opportunity

Evidence

Grants

Guidance Search

Health Plans and Benefits

Hiring

Registered Apprenticeship

International Labor Issues

Job Corps

Labor Relations

Leave Benefits

Other Benefits

Posters

Retirement Plans, Benefits and Savings

Spanish-Language Resources

Termination

Training

Unemployment Insurance

Veterans Employment

Wages

Whistleblower Protection

Work Hours

Workers' Compensation

Workplace Safety and Health

Youth & Young Worker Employment

AGENCIES

Back

Agencies

Office of the Secretary (OSEC)

Administrative Review Board (ARB)

Benefits Review Board (BRB)

Bureau of International Labor Affairs (ILAB)

Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS)

Employee Benefits Security Administration (EBSA) 

Employees' Compensation Appeals Board (ECAB)

Employment and Training Administration (ETA)

Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA)

Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)

Office of Administrative Law Judges (OALJ)

Office of Congressional & Intergovernmental Affairs (OCIA)

Office of Disability Employment Policy (ODEP)

Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP)

Office of Inspector General (OIG)

Office of Labor-Management Standards (OLMS)

Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration and Management (OASAM)

Office of the Assistant Secretary for Policy (OASP)

Office of the Chief Financial Officer (OCFO)

Office of the Solicitor (SOL)

Office of Workers' Compensation Programs (OWCP)

Ombudsman for the Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program (EEOMBD)

Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) 

Veterans' Employment and Training Service (VETS)

Wage and Hour Division (WHD)

Women's Bureau (WB)

FORMS

ABOUT US

Back

About Us

Agencies and Programs

Meet the Secretary of Labor

Leadership Team

Budget, Performance and Planning

Calendar

Careers at DOL

History

Privacy Program

Recursos en Español

NEWS

Back

News

Newsroom

News Releases

Blog

Economic Data from the Department of Labor

FAQ

Search

Breadcrumb

Home

Newsroom

News Releases

Wage and Hour Division

Please note: As of 01/20/2025, information in some news releases may be out of date or not reflect current policies.

News Release
Lenovo Inc. Pays Employee $108,152 After Violating Family and Medical Leave Act at North Carolina Headquarters
MORRISVILLE, NC – Computer manufacturer Lenovo Inc. has paid an employee $108,152 to resolve violations of the Family and Medical Leave Act disclosed in an investigation by the U.S. Department of Labor’s Wage and Hour Division. 
WHD investigators determined that Lenovo, headquartered in Morrisville, North Carolina, failed to reinstate an eligible employee upon return from FMLA leave to the same or equivalent position the worker held prior to the leave, as the law requires. Instead, the employer offered the employee an opportunity to apply for other company positions. After Lenovo failed to hire the worker for any of the alternative positions, the employer terminated the employee.
“The Family and Medical Leave Act provides employees with workplace flexibility when they need it the most by protecting them when they have a serious health condition requiring the need to care for themselves or family members,” said Wage and Hour Division District Director Richard Blaylock, in Raleigh, North Carolina. “The U.S. Department of Labor is committed to ensuring that employees’ rights under the FMLA are protected. We encourage employers to review the numerous tools and resources we provide to help them understand their rights and obligations under this law.” 
The Department offers numerous resources to ensure employers have the tools they need to understand their responsibilities and to comply with federal law, such as online videos and confidential calls to local WHD offices. 
For more information about the FMLA and other laws enforced by the Wage and Hour Division, contact the Division’s toll-free helpline at 866-4US-WAGE (487-9243). Information is also available at www.dol.gov/agencies/whd.
WHD’s mission is to promote and achieve compliance with labor standards to protect and enhance the welfare of the nation’s workforce. WHD enforces federal minimum wage, overtime pay, recordkeeping and child labor requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act. WHD also enforces the paid sick leave and expanded family and medical leave provisions of the Families First Coronavirus Response Act, the Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural Worker Protection Act, the Employee Polygraph Protection Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act, wage garnishment provisions of the Consumer Credit Protection Act, and a number of employment standards and worker protections as provided in several immigration related statutes. Additionally, WHD administers and enforces the prevailing wage requirements of the Davis-Bacon Act and the Service Contract Act and other statutes applicable to federal contracts for construction and for the provision of goods and services.
The mission of the Department of Labor is to foster, promote and develop the welfare of the wage earners, job seekers and retirees of the United States; improve working conditions; advance opportunities for profitable employment; and assure work-related benefits and rights.

Agency
Wage and Hour Division

Date
November 20, 2020

Release Number
20-1817-ATL 

Media Contact: Eric R. Lucero

Phone Number
678-237-0630

Email
lucero.eric.r@dol.gov

Share This

More News Releases

PreviousU.S. Department of Labor’s OSHA Announces $3,148,452 In Coronavirus Violations

Next UpU.S. Department of Labor Partners with McCarthy Building Companies To Promote Workplace Safety at Georgia Construction Site

Scroll to Top 

Agencies

Forms

Guidance Search

FAQ

About DOL

News

 

U.S. Department of Labor

200 Constitution Ave NW
Washington, DC 20210
1-866-4-USA-DOL
1-866-487-2365
www.dol.gov 

Federal Government

White House

Disaster Recovery Assistance

DisasterAssistance.gov

USA.gov

No Fear Act Data

U.S. Office of Special Counsel

Labor Department

About DOL

Guidance Search

Español

Office of Inspector General

A to Z Index

About The Site

Freedom of Information Act

Privacy & Security Statement

Disclaimers

Important Website Notices

Plug-Ins Used on DOL.gov

Accessibility Statement

Connect With DOL

Facebook

X

Instagram

LinkedIn

Youtube

Important Website Notices
Privacy & Security Statement