Macy's To Pay $75,000 To Settle EEOC Disability Discrimination Lawsuit | U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission

      Skip to main content
    

An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know

Here’s how you know

                  Official websites use .gov
              

                A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.

            

                  Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
              

                A lock (
              LockA locked padlock
              ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive
                information only on official, secure websites.

            

            U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
          

Menu

Any of these words (optional)

Search

About EEOC

About EEOC

Overview

The Commission and The General Counsel

Meetings of the Commission

Commission Votes

EEOC History

News and Information

Newsroom

What You Should Know

Legislative Affairs

Publications

Outreach and Education

FOIA

Laws and Enforcement

EEOC Legal Resources

Mediation

Litigation

Systemic Enforcement

Commissioner Charges

Directed Investigations

Programs and Performance

Budget and Performance

Initiatives

Interagency Programs

State and Local Programs

Task Forces

Tribal Programs

Data and Analytics

Overview

Data Governance

EEO Data Collections

Data and Statistics

Data Tools and Products

No FEAR Act Data

Inside EEOC

Careers

Office for Civil Rights

Doing Business with EEOC

AI Governance

Privacy

Office of Inspector General

Employees & Job Applicants

Employees & Applicants

Overview

Coverage

Timeliness

Prohibited Practices

Filing a Charge of Discrimination

Filing a Charge

How to File

After You File a Charge

Confidentiality

Mediation

Remedies

Existing Charges

Filing a Lawsuit

Discrimination by Type

Age

Disability

Equal Pay

Genetic Information

Harassment

National Origin Discrimination 

Pregnancy Discrimination 

Race/Color Discrimination 

Religious Discrimination 

Retaliation

Sex

Sexual Harassment

Employers / Small Business

Employers / Small Business

Overview

Coverage

After a Charge is Filed

Resolving a Charge

Commissioner Charges

Directed Investigations

Remedies

Small Business Resource Center

Small Business Home

Small Business Requirements

Frequently Asked Questions

Tips for Small Businesses

Making an Employment Decision?

EEOC Resources

Small Business Assistance

Small Business Fact Sheet

Small Business Videos

EEOC Glossary

Contact Us

Discrimination by Type

Age

Disability

Equal Pay

Genetic Information

Harassment

National Origin

Pregnancy

Race/Color

Religion

Retaliation

Sex

Sexual Harassment

Prohibited Practices

Recordkeeping

EEO Data Collections

"Know Your Rights" Poster

Training

Other Employment Issues

Federal Sector

Federal Agencies

Overview

Federal EEO Coordination

Federal Agency EEO Directors

EEOC Legal Resources

Management Directives & Federal Sector Guidance

Federal Training & Outreach

Resources

Federal Employees & Job Applicants

Overview

Federal Complaint Process

Federal Sector Alternative Dispute Resolution

Prohibited Practices

Resources

Contact Us

Contact EEOC

Find Your Nearest Office

Office Operating Status

Languages

English
Español (Spanish)
Resources in Other Languages
عربي (Arabic)
简体中文 (Chinese, Simplified)
繁體中文 - Chinese (Traditional)
Kreyòl Ayisyen (Haitian Creole)
한국어 (Korean)
Русском (Russian)
Português (Portuguese)
Tagalog (Tagalog)
ไทย (Thai)
Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese)
فارسی (Persian. Farsi)
پښتو (Pashto)

Home

Newsroom

          Macy's To Pay $75,000 To Settle EEOC Disability Discrimination Lawsuit
      

Press Release
              04-18-2018
          
Macy's To Pay $75,000 To Settle EEOC Disability Discrimination Lawsuit

Retailer Refused to Excuse Asthmatic Employee's One-Day Absence and Fired Her, Federal Agency Charged CHICAGO - Macy's will pay a former long-term employee $75,000 to settle a disability discrimination lawsuit filed by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), the federal agency announced today. The EEOC's lawsuit charged Macy's with firing an asthmatic employee, rather than excuse a one-day absence the employee needed to address emergency complications arising from her disability. This alleged conduct violated the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). The EEOC filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, Eastern Division (Equal Employment Opportunity Commission v. Macy's, Inc/Macy's Retail Holdings, Inc.; Civil Action No. 17-cv-05959) on Aug. 16, 2017 after first attempting to reach a pre-litigation settlement through the EEOC's conciliation process. According to the EEOC's lawsuit, the asthmatic employee worked for Macy's for nearly eight years, but she was fired after a one-day absence due to needing immediate medical attention for her asthma. Macy's policy permits absences for disability-related reasons. However, in this case, Macy's denied the employee's request to excuse the absence, even though she had to be seen in a hospital emergency room, and fired her three weeks later. Macy's will pay $75,000 in monetary relief to the employee as part of a consent decree settling the suit and will provide additional relief intended to improve Macy's workplace for employees with disabilities. Under the decree, Macy's will train certain employees on disability law and accommodation requirements under the ADA. Macy's will also monitor requests for accommodation and complaints of disability discrimination at its two Chicago stores and report those to the EEOC. "The ADA requires employers to reasonably accommodate disability-related absences that enable their employees to perform their job," said Julianne Bowman, EEOC's district director in Chicago. "Here, a one-day absence would have enabled the employee to return to the job she held for almost eight years. We are pleased with today's settlement which will compensate the victim and monitor Macy's accommodation practices with respect to the ADA." Greg Gochanour, the regional attorney of EEOC's Chicago District Office, said, "Macy's response to the employee's absence was not reasonable. The employee found herself in a potentially life threatening circumstance and phoned Macy's to explain her absence before going to the hospital. The following day, she provided Macy's documentation from the hospital showing she was treated for asthma. Rather than accommodate the employee, Macy's fired her." The EEOC's Chicago District Office is responsible for processing charges of employment discrimination, administrative enforcement and the conduct of agency litigation in Illinois, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Iowa and North and South Dakota, with area offices in Milwaukee and Minneapolis. The EEOC advances opportunity in the workplace by enforcing federal laws prohibiting employment discrimination. More information is available at www.eeoc.gov. Stay connected with the latest EEOC news by subscribing to our email updates.

Return to top

U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
            

EEOC Headquarters
131 M Street, NEWashington, DC 205071-800-669-6820 (TTY)1-844-234-5122 (ASL Video Phone)

Questions?Call 1-800-669-4000For Deaf/Hard of Hearing callers:1-800-669-6820 (TTY)1-844-234-5122 (ASL Video Phone)info@eeoc.govFind your nearest EEOC office
Connect With Us

FOIA

Privacy Policy

Disclaimer

Accessibility

Office of Inspector General

USA.gov