McDonald's fined for employing underage workers. 12/04/2007. ABC News Online

Search the ABC

ABC Home | Radio | Television | News | More Subjects… | Shop

News Home      

Top Stories      

Just In              

World                

Australia/Local  

Business           

Politics              

Weather           

Sport                

Health               

Arts                   

Sci-Tech           

Environment     

Rural                 

Indigenous       

Opinion             

Offbeat             

Forums             

Services            

Help/Site Map   

Programs
------ RADIO ------
AM
Back. Briefing
Corresp. Report
Go Asia Pacific
NewsRadio
PM
Sunday Profile
World Today
------ TV ------
7.30 Report
Asia Pacific Focus
Aust. Story
Foreign Corresp.
Four Corners
Inside Business
Insiders
Landline
Lateline
Lateline Bus.
Stateline
 

Print  Email 

 Last Update: Thursday, April 12, 2007. 9:30am (AEST)
McDonald's fined for employing underage workers

Fast food chain McDonald's has pleaded guilty to five charges of employing children under the age of 15 at its Rockingham outlet south-west of Perth.

The Department for Consumer Protection says McDonald's was fined $8,000 for employing the children without written permission from their parents and having them working outside restricted hours.

Bob Horstman from the department says a letter of warning was sent to McDonald's last year outlining the laws and giving them time to ensure their rosters complied.

He says in fast food restaurants, it is an offence to employ a child under 15 without written permission, or allow them to work shifts before 6:00am or after 10:00pm.

Print  Email 

ABC Top Stories

Uni gunman sent pictures to American TV
Car bombs slaughter 190 in Baghdad
China set to overtake US on carbon emissions
Bush gives Sudan 'last chance' on Darfur
Iran starts uranium enrichment: IAEA
Cairns man facing child sex charges
Sri Lanka romp to victory over Ireland

Send us your pictures. Email your pictures and video to ABC News Online or send them via MMS to 0417 751 633 (+61 417 751 633 if you're overseas.) Email address: yourpics@your.abc.net.au

© 2007 ABC | Privacy Policy
This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, CNN andthe BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
AEST = Australian Eastern Standard Time which is 10 hours ahead of UTC (Greenwich Mean Time)