Moroccanoil -- Israeli hair products that glamorize apartheid | The Electronic Intifada

Jump to navigation

Donate nowGet Updates

The Electronic Intifada

You are here 
Moroccanoil — Israeli hair products that glamorize apartheid

Sarah Irving
Activism and BDS Beat
26 June 2015 

Moroccanoil is heavily promoted in British beauty salons. (Lindsey Garrett/Flickr)This post is inspired by my umpteenth conversation with a friend who’s been shocked to find out that Moroccanoil — a hair treatment whose bright turquoise publicity material seems to grace half the beauty salons in Britain — is actually Israeli.
In fact, I’ve even come across people who actively sought out Moroccanoil, deceived by its name into thinking they were buying a North African product.
Yes, the argan oil that is a key ingredient to the product is from beans sourced in Morocco (apparently). And it is North African Arab and Berber women who have used the oil for many years as a skin and hair treatment.
But the product called Moroccanoil — and some other argan-oil based hair treatments — is actually manufactured in Israel (and only contains a proportion of the raw oil, combined with lots of the nasties that go into most other mainstream cosmetics).
Moroccanoil’s Israeli links, however, take a back seat on the company’s website. 
The product’s origin only is mentioned just twice on that site. One is tucked away in the terms and conditions section.
The other is a disingenuous little note titled “Behind the brand,” which reads: “Our story began when our co-founder, Carmen Tal, was traveling in Israel. After a color service that left her hair badly damaged, a friend brought her to a salon where she experienced an astonishing oil treatment. The result was that her hair instantly transformed from damaged to shiny, smooth and manageable.”
Cosmetic layer
For most people, of course, being inspired by a holiday experience means finding a new food or putting a photo on Facebook. In this case, it meant buying the entire company. As a result, the overall firm is Moroccanoil Israel, despite the fact that most of the contacts named are in North America and Europe.
There have, of course, been references to Moroccanoil on Israel boycott websites such as BDSList for some time. And Moroccanoil has been targeted by local campaigners, such as those in Ireland who urged hairdressers in the Limerick area to boycott the company’s products during the 2014 attack on Gaza.
But I wanted to flag up three particular reasons why I feel that Moroccanoil deserves a higher place on boycott campaign lists.
Firstly, there is its place in hasbara. Often translated as “explaining,” hasbara is the term that Israel uses for its propaganda activities.
Pinkwashing and greenwashing are terms familiar to many activists. They involve portraying Israel as gay and environmentally-friendly in an attempt to distract from its apartheid system.
Moroccanoil is something like “foundation-washing” — applying a thick cosmetic layer to the state’s crimes. In the lifestyle and careers sections of magazines, the company, its products and its owner are portrayed as a glamorous, associating Israel with beauty and luxury instead of discrimination and occupation.
For that reason, Moroccanoil can be viewed as a form of hasbara.
The hasbara extends to the trips which the company’s top sales reps get — to Israel, of course. For example, a video posted by Yariv Hen, head of IsraeliGuide, a tour company that organized one of those trips, shows Moroccanoil staff partying in a range of settings, including some which may be on Israeli settlements in the occupied West Bank or Golan Heights.
Secondly, like other “beauty” brands such as Dove, Moroccanoil exploits the language of inspiration and empowerment to convince women to buy their products. Moroccanoil’s website uses interviews with women involved in social volunteering, renewable energy and animal rights campaigning to greenwash the fact that the product itself has links to an oppressive, exploitative regime.
And thirdly, there is the fact that in calling its products Moroccanoil, the company seems to be deliberately disingenuous, laying claim to an identity which — if it has any links to Israel at all — is to the country’s marginalized North African Jewish communities, not to the rich elites who make money from international trade.
This is, perhaps, the perfect irony. 
 Tags

greenwashing 

BDS 

Limerick 

Moroccanoil 

ireland 

Morocco 

Carmen Tal 

Gaza 

#GazaUnderAttack 

Yariv Hen 

IsraeliGuide 

Sarah Irving's blog
 Facebook
 Twitter
Donate Now

 Comments

 
It is always valuable to 

 Permalink maggie replied on Fri, 06/26/2015 - 13:10 

It is always valuable to learn of Israeli products being slipped under the radar onto unsuspecting people who would not purchase such things if they knew the true origins of the product.  Thank you for this information.  I will spread the word and I will ask shops I frequent to stop their sale of this product.

 
These products should be 

 Permalink Laix khan replied on Fri, 06/26/2015 - 22:00 

These products should be avoided for all the reasons stated and for appropriating Moroccan as a brand identity something Zionist Israel are good at 'stealing ' land identity and Arab Palestinians identity!

 
Moroccanoil 

 Permalink alison replied on Sat, 06/27/2015 - 19:21 

When we take visitors to the women's co-operatives in Morocco where they sell the locally produced argan oil products, we are sometimes asked for Moroccanoil.  People don't realise they are not from Morocco!

 
Shea terra Organics  

 Permalink Sarah replied on Sat, 06/27/2015 - 20:55 

That's why I always do my research before I purchase!  I buy my argan oil and hair products from Shea Terra Organics. Women run cooperatives. Fair wages paid and its 109% organic. www.sheaterraorganics.ca

Sarah Irving

 

Sarah is a freelance writer and editor, author of a biography of Leila Khaled and of the Bradt Guide to Palestine, co-editor of A Bird is Not a Stone (a volume of Palestinian poetry translated into the languages of Scotland), and a PhD candidate at the University of Edinburgh. She has worked and traveled in Palestine since 2001. 

Twitter 

Personal website 

 

Play focused on Gaza woman turns despair into hope 

Sarah Irving
3 November 2015 

 

Painter Fouad Agbaria reclaims symbols of Palestine's survival

Sarah Irving
29 October 2015 

 

Hundreds of UK scholars pledge to boycott Israeli universities

Sarah Irving
27 October 2015 

 

Jerusalem women call for protection against Israeli violence

Sarah Irving
27 October 2015 

 

Harry Potter fans "heartbroken" as author urges engagement with Israel 

Sarah Irving
26 October 2015 

 

Main menuFeaturesOpinion and analysisReviewsBlogsVideo 
TwitterFacebookYouTube
Search form

Search 

 

© 2000-2025 electronicIntifada.netAbout EI
Contact
Submit to EI