NatWest fined £264.8 million for anti-money laundering failures | FCA

Skip to main content
Skip to search box

    Search
  

Search

Main menu

Main navigation

About us

Contact us

Get in touch by phone, via our online form, or by post:
 
Financial Conduct Authority
12 Endeavour Square
London E20 1JN
 
Contact us

What we do

About the FCA
Enhancing market integrity
How we work
Promoting competition
Protecting consumers

How we regulate

Authorisation
Enforcement
Handbook of rules and guidance
International standards and regulations
Supervision

How we operate

Complain about us, the PRA or the Bank of England (the regulators)
Corporate responsibility
Diversity, equity and inclusion: our progress
Environmental sustainability
Who we work with

Who we are

Chair
Chief Executive
Committees
Executive committees
FCA Board

Join us

Careers home
Early careers
Experienced professionals

Our strategy 2025 to 2030 
Our vision and priorities for the next 5 years.How we work

Close menu

Firms

Firms overview

Go to our dedicated section to see support for firms and our latest policy updates.
 
Find out more

Firm authorisation

Authorisation
Cancelling an authorisation or registration
Check if a firm is authorised
How to apply for authorisation or registration

Regulated firms

All firms
Claims management companies
Consumer credit firms
Electronic money and payment institutions
Funeral plan providers and intermediaries
Innovation Hub
Mutual societies

Close menu

Tasks for firms

Approved persons
Change in control
Fees and levies
Keeping your firm's information up to date
Principals and appointed representatives

Focus areas

Artificial intelligence
Consumer Duty
Cost of living: firm information
Cryptoassets
FCA support services for firms
Senior Managers and Certification Regime 

Consumer Duty 
We're hosting events to help firms prepare for the new rules. Sign up to hear about these and related communications.
Sign up

Close menu

Markets

Primary markets

Forms and checklists
Knowledge Base
Listing applications and cancellations
Regulatory Disclosures
The sponsor regime

Markets policy

About LIBOR transition
Data reporting services providers
Securitisation
UK EMIR
UK Securities Financing Transactions Regulation (UK SFTR)

Regulated markets

Benchmarks
Central securities depositories

Market abuse

How to report suspected market abuse as a firm or trading venue
How to report suspected market abuse as an individual
Market Abuse Regulation

Short selling

Exemptions from short-selling requirements
Notification and disclosure of net short positions
Short selling

Transaction reporting

Instrument reference data
Transaction reporting

Close menu

Consumers

Our Consumer section

See our dedicated section to help you stay up-to-date with financial services in the UK.
 
Find out more

Your rights

Considering a defined benefit pension transfer
FCA Firm Checker
High risk investments
How to check a firm or individual is authorised
Information for victims of financial crime
Your rights with financial services

Complaints

Car finance claims
Complain about a regulator
How to claim compensation if a firm fails
How to complain
Using claims management companies

Scams

Crypto investment scams
Fake FCA communications
Loan fee fraud
Pension scams
Protect yourself from scams

Report a firm

Misleading financial promotions
Report a payment services or e-money firm
Report a scam
Unfair contracts

FCA Warning List 
Find our most up-to-date warnings of firms and individuals running scams or operating without authorisation.
Read more

Close menu

News

Sign up to receive daily alerts on the warnings we issue

Receive new and updated warnings in a daily email.
 
Sign up

News

Blogs
News stories
Press releases
Speeches
Statements
Warnings

Media centre

Inside FCA podcasts
Media library

Events

See all FCA events

Close menu

Publications

Policy and guidance
Corporate documents
Notices and decisions
Data
Research
Forms

Open consultations 
See our current open consultations and the deadlines for giving feedback.
Respond to our consultations

Close menu

Home
News
NatWest fined £264.8 million for anti-money laundering failures 

 

NatWest fined £264.8 million for anti-money laundering failures 

Press Releases
First published: 						13/12/2021

Last updated: 13/12/2021

Print Page

Linkedin

Twitter

                Share page
              

National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) was today fined £264,772,619.95 following convictions for three offences of failing to comply with money laundering regulations.

Mrs Justice Cockerill, the sentencing judge at Southwark Crown Court, today said: '….it must be borne in mind that although in no way complicit in the money laundering which took place, the Bank was functionally vital. Without the Bank – and without the Bank’s failures - the money could not be effectively laundered.' 
NatWest pleaded guilty at Westminster Magistrates Court on 7 October. This is the first time the FCA has pursued criminal charges for money laundering failings.
The charges covered NatWest’s failure to properly monitor the activity of a commercial customer, Fowler Oldfield, a jewellery business based in Bradford, between 8 November 2012 to 23 June 2016. When taking on the customer, NatWest initially understood it would not handle cash from the Fowler Oldfield business. However, over the course of the customer relationship approximately £365m was deposited with the bank, of which around £264m was in cash.
Some of the bank’s employees, who were responsible for handling these cash deposits, reported their suspicions to bank staff responsible for investigating suspected money laundering, however no appropriate action was ever taken. The ‘red flags’ that were reported included significant amounts of Scottish bank notes deposited throughout England, deposits of notes carrying a prominent musty smell, and individuals acting suspiciously when depositing cash in NatWest branches. In addition, the bank’s automated transaction monitoring system incorrectly recognised some cash deposits as cheque deposits. As cheques carry a lower money laundering risk than cash, this was a significant gap in the bank’s monitoring of a large number of customers depositing cash, of which Fowler Oldfield was one.
A separate investigation by West Yorkshire Police has led to 11 people pleading guilty to charges relating to the cash deposits and three cash couriers being charged. A further 13 individuals are awaiting trial at Leeds Crown Court on 25 April 2022 in relation to the activities of Fowler Oldfield.
Mark Steward, Executive Director of Enforcement and Market Oversight at the FCA, said:

'NatWest is responsible for a catalogue of failures in the way it monitored and scrutinised transactions that were self-evidently suspicious. Combined with serious systems failures, like the treatment of cash deposits as cheques, these failures created an open door for money laundering.
'Anti-money laundering controls are a vital part of the fight against serious crime, like drug trafficking, and such failures are intolerable ones that let down the whole community, which, in this case, justified the FCA’s first criminal prosecution under the Money Laundering Regulations.'
Notes to editors
The fine reflected a discount for the plea of guilty. The figure before 1/3 reduction for plea is £397,156,944.14.

Sentencing remarks: 
NatWest failed to comply with Money Laundering Regulations (2007). The Money Laundering Regulations 2007 came into force on 15 December 2007 and form part of the UK’s legislative framework designed to prevent the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing. They were superseded by the Money Laundering, Terrorist Financing and Transfer of Funds (Information on the Payer) Regulations 2017. 
Full details of the case against NatWest are available in the following agreed Statement of Facts  
National Westminster Bank Plc is a subsidiary of NatWest Group Plc (formerly the Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc). 
Previous press releases: NatWest Plc pleads guilty in criminal proceedings and FCA starts criminal proceedings against NatWest Plc 

 

Was this page useful?

Yes 

No 

What can we do to improve pages like this?	

What did you find helpful?

Submit Feedback

Leave this field blank

Accessibility

Complain about us

Copyright notice

Corporate responsibility

Cymraeg

Freedom of information

Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement

Privacy

Sitemap

Translated languages

Social

LinkedIn

RSS Feed

Twitter

Registers and Systems
Registers and Systems

My FCA

Financial Services Register

FCA Handbook

Connect

RegData

Online Invoicing System

Careers
Careers

Careers home

Early careers

Experienced professionals

Contact
Contact

FCA Head Office
12 Endeavour Square
London E20 1JN
Contact us

Copyright © 2025 FCA. All rights reserved.

Back to top

Company no. 01920623