Nintendo's price fixing fine reduced by £27m | GamesIndustry.biz

Skip to main content

                      Nintendo Switch 2
                

                      Layoffs
                

                      Jobs roundup
                

                      Financials
                

                      Critical Consensus
                

GamesIndustry.biz 

Navigation

                      Features
                

                      News
                

                      Academy
                

                      Events
                

                      Newsletters
                

                      Video Games Jobs
                

Go

      Support us
    

Sign in / Create account          

Latest News

Sign in for free to manage your site experience.    

Nintendo's price fixing fine reduced by £27m
Netflix to buy Warner Bros, including games division, for $82.7bn
Russia blocks Roblox, partly due to "LGBT propaganda"
Report: Meta planning massive cuts to Reality Labs metaverse division
Sable creative director forms new studio Eteo
Sega says AI will make development efficient, but acknowledges "strong resistance" to the tech
Sony to produce and publish Bad Robot Games' first internally developed title
Goat Simulator creators reveal new studio Feeble Minds
Wreckreation maker Three Fields Entertainment puts whole studio on redundancy notice
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 becomes 2025's top third-party release on Xbox Game Pass

If you click on a link and make a purchase we may receive a small commission.  Read our editorial policy.

                      Home
                

                      News
                

Nintendo's price fixing fine reduced by £27m
Cooperation with EU court prompts reduction for Nintendo and distributors

                    News
                  
by Matt Martin 
                      Contributor
                    

Published on May 1, 2009 

  Follow Nintendo
 

Nintendo's fine by the European Court for price fixing has been reduced from EUR 149.128 (GBP 132.767) to EUR 119.24 million (GBP 106.15m).

The fine was originally imposed on Nintendo and seven of is distribution partners in Europe, including John Menzies in the UK, for fixing prices on hardware and software between 1991 and 1998.

Nintendo said it would fight the decision last May, and the reduction has been granted following Nintendo and its distributors' co-operating with the court ruling.

"The Court recalled that the basic amount of the fine may be reduced where the undertaking has effectively cooperated in the proceedings," stated the court. "In the contested decision, the Commission took account of John Menzies’s cooperation, with the result that it reduced that undertaking’s fine by 40 per cent. 

"The Court held that pursuant to the principle of equal treatment, since Nintendo produced the relevant documents at the same stage of the procedure and its cooperation must be regarded as comparable, it must benefit in this respect from the same level of reduction of fine."

A fine on Nintendo's distributor in Belgium and Luxembourg, CD Contact Data, was also cut from EUR 1 million to EUR 500,000.

View comments (0)    

Related topics

Nintendo
Publishing

Latest News

              Netflix to buy Warner Bros, including games division, for $82.7bn
            

              Russia blocks Roblox, partly due to "LGBT propaganda"
            

              Report: Meta planning massive cuts to Reality Labs metaverse division
            

              Sable creative director forms new studio Eteo
            

              Sega says AI will make development efficient, but acknowledges "strong resistance" to the tech
            

              Sony to produce and publish Bad Robot Games' first internally developed title
            

              Goat Simulator creators reveal new studio Feeble Minds
            

© 2025 GamesIndustry.biz, an IGN Entertainment Inc. brand. 18 Mansell Street Level 3, London, E1 8AA, United Kingdom. All rights reserved. No part of this website or its content may be reproduced without the copyright owner's permission. GAMESINDUSTRY.BIZ is a registered trademark of Gamer Network Limited, an affiliate of IGN Entertainment Inc. 

Theme

Auto

Light

Dark

 

          Helpful links
        

                      About Us
                

                      Advertise with us
                

                      Archive
                

                      Authors
                

                      Contact Us
                

                      Corporate Site
                

                      Pitching Guidelines
                

                      RSS Feeds
                

                      Send Us News
                

          Policies
        

                      Accessibility Policy
                

                      Code of Conduct
                

                      Cookie Policy
                

                      Do Not Sell My Personal Information
                

                      Editorial Policy
                

                                        Manage Privacy Preferences
                      

                      Privacy Policy
                

                      Review Policy
                

                      Terms & Conditions
                

          IGN Entertainment
        

                      Dicebreaker
                

                      Eurogamer
                

                      HowLongToBeat
                

                      Humble Bundle
                

                      IGN
                

                      Maxroll
                

                      Nintendo Life
                

                      Pure Xbox
                

                      Push Square
                

                      Rock Paper Shotgun
                

                      Time Extension
                

                      VG247
                

          Find us on social media
        

                      Facebook
                

                      LinkedIn
                

                      Mastodon
                

                      X (Twitter)