Pepsi: Repairing a Poisoned Reputation in India

Register Sign In

Current Issue
4 Free Issues
Subscribe Now

Home

Top News
News Archive
News Search
Special Reports
Newsmaker Videos
Newsletters
The Debate Room

Investing

Investing Home
Markets
Stocks
Economy
Real Estate
Retirement
Investing: Europe
Columns
Philanthropy
Learning Center

Companies

Companies Home
Sectors & Industries
Industry News
Learning Center
People Overview

Technology

Tech Home
CEO Tech Guide
Computers
Electronics
Entertainment
Internet
Reviews
Software
Special Reports
Investing
Tech Maven
Telecom

Autos

Autos Home
Auto Beat Blog
Auto Design
Reviews
Car Care & Safety
Classic Cars
Hybrids
Cruise Control Podcast

Innovation & Design

Innovation Home
Architecture
Auto Design
Brand Equity
Design Blog
Game Room
Media Blog
J.D. Power Ratings
Slide Shows

Small Biz

Small Biz Home
After Work
Getting Started
Info Center
Marketing
Leadership
Resource Center
Smart Answers
Success Stories
Tech
Viewpoint

B-Schools

B-Schools Home
Undergrad
MBA Insider
MBA Blogs
Calendar
Forums
Rankings & Profiles
Admissions Q&As
Journals
Videos
Newsletters

Careers

Careers Home
The Welch Way
Working Parents Blog
Executive Jobs
Compare Salaries
Executive MBA Search
Videos
Archive
Newsletters

Asia

Asia Home
China
India
Economics
Innovation
Investing
Asia Tech Blog
Newsletters

Europe

Europe Home
Autos
Economics
Energy
Innovation
Investing
Product Reviews
Newsletters

BW Magazine

Current Issue
Magazine Search
Special Reports
Tools
BW TV
Subscribe
Playbooks
Newsletters

Asia
May 31, 2007, 8:34AM EST

Pepsi: Repairing a Poisoned Reputation in India

How the soda giant fought charges of tainted products in a country fixated on its polluted water

by
Diane Brady

Story Tools

post a comment
e-mail this story
print this story
order a reprint
digg this
save to del.icio.us

View Slide Show

Indra K. Nooyi says she still feels guilty filling a bathtub with water. It sounds far-fetched coming from the chief executive of a major multinational corporation, until you consider her early years. Nooyi, the chief executive of PepsiCo Inc. (PEP), didn't get much water growing up during the 1960s in the Indian coastal city of Chennai. Although she describes her family as "very middle class," they still had to rise every morning between three and five—the only hours that the valves to the municipal water supply were turned on—and fill every bucket in the house. Two buckets were set aside for cooking, and two each would go to Nooyi, her older sister, and her younger brother. "You had to think about whether to take a bath," says Nooyi, matter-of-factly. "You learned to live your life off those two buckets."

Nooyi left Chennai, propelled by a dream to build a career in the U.S. She headed to the prestigious Indian Institute of Management and later Yale University before moving into the corporate sphere, eventually settling at PepsiCo in 1994. When she was named CEO in October of last year, India's water again became a focus of her life.

This time Nooyi was cast as part of the problem. Villagers charged that PepsiCo—which has named India as a top strategic priority—consumes excessive groundwater in their parched communities. Even worse was the repeated claim that the snack and beverage company, along with rival Coca-Cola Co. (KO), were allowing pesticide residue from groundwater to get into locally made soda. The charges, first leveled in 2003, emerged again two months before Nooyi took over the top job.  Pepsi's soda sales, which fell by double digits in India when the scandal first broke, took another big hit last fall. She braced herself as protestors smashed bottles on the streets while several states in India banned or restricted sales of soft drinks. Nooyi, now 51, was livid. "For somebody to think that Pepsi would jeopardize its brand—its global brand—by doing something stupid in one country is crazy."

AN ACTIVIST FAMILYBut Indian politicians and consumers took the charges seriously, in part because they came from Sunita Narain. A well-known activist in New Delhi, Narain, 45, was born into a family of freedom fighters who supported Mahatma Gandhi in the push for India's independence in 1947. She idolized her late father even though he may not always have hewed to Gandhi's creed of nonviolence. "I'm told he even made bombs," she says.

In high school Narain took up environmental causes, campaigning to stop developers from cutting down New Delhi trees. Unlike Nooyi, her ambition was not to leave India but to save it from the excesses of industrialization. She skipped college, explaining that she "was very keen to do a degree in environmental issues, but nobody offered it." Instead, in 1981, she fell in with a charismatic activist named Anil Agarwal who had just started the Centre for Science & Environment (CSE). Narain became director of the fledgling advocacy group in 2002 when Agarwal died. Her tone in that role tends toward the-end-is-nigh alarmism; her savvy tactics often draw media attention and have garnered such environmental accolades as the 2005 Stockholm Water Prize. Indians, she declares, are "getting poisoned by pesticides," and CSE tests show Pepsi contributes to this toxic assault.

On one level a tale of two strong-minded individuals, Pepsi's ongoing battle over water in India also illustrates an escalating global backlash against the ways multinationals consume natural resources. Foreign companies have long transformed oil, diamonds, and countless other raw materials into profits that flow from developing nations to wealthy ones. Now the playing field is leveling. Activists such as Narain have blogs, e-mail, and other cheap, powerful tools for getting their messages out.

Page
1
2
3
4
5

Next Page

Reader Discussion

Post a comment about this story in Reader Discussion…
 

BW Extras

Podcasts
Top Designers
Behind the Cover
CEO Guide to Tech
more…

RSS Feeds
Most Popular
Top News
Innovation Trends
more…

E-mails
Asia Insider
MBA Express
BW.com Insider
more…

Blogs
Blogspotting
Byte of the Apple
NussbaumOnDesign
Tech Beat

 

 

Most Popular Stories

Read
E-mailed
Discussed

F-14 Parts, Anyone?At 3M, A Struggle Between Efficiency And CreativityHow Long Can Ford Lose $5,000 a Car?Dawn of the Ultra-Mobile PCWal-Mart Lets Up on the GasRSS Feed: Most Read Stories
At 3M, A Struggle Between Efficiency And CreativitySix Sigma: So Yesterday?A Booming Business in MBA CoachesHow Long Can Ford Lose $5,000 a Car?The Right Cure For Ailing Elder Care?RSS Feed: Most E-mailed Stories
Exxon Mobil's GusherAt 3M, A Struggle Between Efficiency And CreativityA Booming Business in MBA CoachesF-14 Parts, Anyone?China Starts Driving in StyleRSS Feed: Most Discussed Stories

Most Popular Multimedia

Slide Shows

The World's 50 Most Decadent HotelsIntel's Think Thin LaptopThe 20 Best Affordable Suburbs in the WestThe 25 Best Affordable Suburbs in the SouthBest Affordable Suburbs 2006RSS Feed: Most Popular Slide Shows

BW Mall - Sponsored LinksGoing Global is hard, Lionbridge makes it easy. Insights for global operations, Whitepaper: Best Practices for Integrating a Multishore Strategy
Is Your Network Ready for IP Telephony? Free Paper: Get the straight facts about planning & deploying IP telephony on your business network.**Click Here For A FREE 30 Day Trial** The eRecruitment solution that is taking the industry by storm! ----Take a FREE 30 Day Trial to see for yourself. See for yourself what a...Refinance Rates At 4.9% - Exclusive Offer! $300,000 Loan For $996/Mo. Get Up To 4 Free Quotes. Save Thousands!Earn 15% Yearly W/ Private Medical Investments Invest W/ Expert Run Mobile Imaging Centers Using GE Technology. Earnings Paid Monthly, $25K Min.Buy a link
                    now!

 

 

Advertising | Special Sections | MarketPlace | Knowledge Centers  | Terms of Use | Disclaimer | Privacy Notice | Ethics Code | Contact Us 
Copyright 2000-2007 by The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved.