This Disney+ Movie With AI Actors Is Horrendous, & Exactly What Striking Actors Are Fighting Against

Menu

Sign in now

Close

Movies

Submenu

Movie Features

Movie News

Movie Reviews

Movie Lists

Movie Trailers

TV

Submenu

TV Features

TV News

TV Reviews

Network TV

TV Lists

Reality TV

Submenu

Reality TV Features

Reality TV News

Reality TV Lists

Gaming

Submenu

Game Features

Game News

Game Guides

Game Reviews

Game Lists

Comics

Submenu

Comic Features

Comic News

Comic Reviews

Comic Lists

Anime

Submenu

Anime Features

Anime News

Anime Lists

Music

Submenu

Music Features

Music Lists

Network TV Schedule

Videos

More
Submenu

Lists

Interviews

Podcasts

Sign in

Newsletter

Menu

                                    Follow
                                

                                            Followed
                                    

                            Like
                                

More Action

Sign in now

 

Christmas Advent Calendar

Exclusives

Best on Streaming

SR Database

Challenge My GOAT

Network TV Schedule

Close

This Disney+ Movie With AI Actors Is Horrendous, & Exactly What Striking Actors Are Fighting Against

Prom Pact Still 3

By 
Adam Bentz

Published Oct 12, 2023

Adam Bentz is a senior news writer at ScreenRant. He studied creative writing and English with a concentration in screenwriting at Southern New Hampshire University and interned as a writer/journalist for The Borgen Project, an influential organization that fights global poverty. Adam also fancies himself an amateur film reviewer on his website. One of his proudest achievements is editing a Leonardo DiCaprio freakout compilation that has over 150K views on YouTube. 

 

Sign in to your ScreenRant account

follow

                                    Follow
                            

followed

                                    Followed
                            

                                    Like
                            

                            Like
                                

Log in

							Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
						

Try something different:
							

									Show me the facts
								

									Explain it like I’m 5
								

									Give me a lighthearted recap
								

Summary
 

                                        The Disney+ movie Prom Pact is facing criticism for using AI actors that look horrendous, which is exactly what striking actors are trying to prevent.
                        

                                        A Tweet calls out Disney CEO Bob Iger for using digital scans of actors instead of paying them fair wages.
                        

                                        Negotiations between SAG-AFTRA and AMPTP have collapsed, with the industry CEOs walking away from the bargaining table due to the significant gap between the two parties on important issues like protection against AI.
                        

The Disney+ movie, Prom Pact, gets called out for using AI actors that look horrendous, which is exactly what striking actors are trying to prevent. Premiered this past March on Disney+, the movie follows a determined student who makes a pact to go to prom with a popular jock in order to get into Harvard. The Prom Pact cast includes Peyton Elizabeth Lee and Blake Draper alongside Margaret Cho, Milo Manheim, Arica Himmel, and Wendi McLendon-Covey. As the SAG-AFTRA strike continues, a Twitter post from @GeekLawGrad points out how Prom Pact used digital scans in place of real actors, and the result looks horrendous. Check out the video below:

The post, as seen above, claims that Disney CEO "Bob Iger would rather insert digital scans of background actors than paying actors their fair wage," accompanied by the hashtag "#SAGAFTRAStrong." This was in response to a post from DiscussingFilm that claims, "Earlier this year, Disney was caught inserting digital scans of background actors in their film ‘PROM PACT’. Disney & other studios have been digitally scanning background actors and are now using their digital likeness in various movies & TV shows without payment or permission." 
                        How Is The SAG-AFTRA Strike Going?
               

SAG-AFTRA On Strike logo

The post, which points out the egregious practice of using digital scans rather than paying actors a fair wage, comes just as the negotiations between SAG-AFTRA and AMPTP collapsed. After refusing to counter the actors union's offer, the industry CEOs "walked away from the bargaining table," and said the gap between the two sides is "too great" to continue. The AMPTP claims SAG's offer would cost more than $800 million and "create an untenable economic burden," though the actors claim that figure is inflated by 60 percent, and it would "cost the companies less than 57¢ per subscriber each year."

Related

			Writers' Strike Deal Explained: 8 Biggest Points & Agreements Confirmed
		

After 148 days, the WGA has reached a contract with the AMPTP. These are the biggest items agreed to by Hollywood's biggest studios, including AI use.

Posts

By 
Kayleena Pierce-Bohen

Sep 27, 2023

The latest update is a significant setback for the negotiations considering the WGA recently reached an agreement with the AMPTP, and SAG-AFTRA was expected to do the same. One of the union's biggest demands is protection against AI. This would mean that actors would be required to give consent, and receive proper compensation, for any use of their digital likeness. Since Disney and other studios are reportedly scanning actors and using their digital likenesses without payment or permission, such as in Prom Pact, it's understandable why SAG-AFTRA isn't conceding on this important issue, among others. Source: @GeekLawGrad, DiscussingFilm/Twitter 

Movies

Disney Plus

Prom Pact

                                                                        Follow
                                                            

                                                            Followed
                                                    

                                                            Like
                                                                    

Share

Facebook

X

WhatsApp

Threads

Bluesky

LinkedIn

Reddit

Flipboard

Copy link

Email

Close

Recommended

2 hours ago

                                    DCU's Fan-Favorite Bruce Wayne Choice Is Already Getting Called Batman In The Streets
                            

2 hours ago

                                    The Simpsons Movie 2's Release Date Changes With Hilarious Homer Announcement
                            

2 hours ago

                                    3 Best Movies To Watch On Prime Video This Weekend (Dec 6-7)
                            

6 hours ago

                                    Peaky Blinders Movie Release Date Confirmed By Netflix
                            

Trending Now

			15 Best Breaking Bad Episodes, Ranked
		

			Silent Night, Deadly Night Review: Santa's Got a Brand New (Mixed Results) Bag
		

			Writers Guild Decries Netflix-Warner Bros. Deal: "This Merger Must Be Blocked"
		

 

Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Review Policy
Media Coverage
Contact Us

Follow Us

Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies

ScreenRant is part of the
                            Valnet Publishing Group

                Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.