Topgolf sexual harassment outlined in new report | Sex Crimes | Crime

 

   
  

  

  

  
VIEW E-EDITION

99¢ for 6 mos

Support local journalism.
Only 99¢ for 6 months

MANAGE
ACTIVATE
SIGN IN

Hi  

SIGN OUT

 

56°F

News
Local
Sports
Business
Neon
Things to do
Opinion
Crime
Obits
 

56°F

Clear
Las Vegas, NV

Home
Latest Headlines
Neon

Kats
Dining Out
Outdoors
Bars
Nightlife
Music
Arts & Culture
Free
Family Friendly

goguide
Nevada’s Black Book
Top 100 Restaurants – 2025
Paying the Price
7@7 video
Middle East Peace
Local

Traffic
Las Vegas Weather
East Valley
Henderson
Las Vegas

Downtown

Nevada
North Las Vegas
Southwest
Summerlin/Centennial Hills
The Strip
Remembering Oct. 1, 2017
Local Columns

Bob Morris
Deborah Wall
Natalie Burt

Sports

Raiders News
Golden Knights
Athletics
UNLV

UNLV Football
UNLV Basketball

National Finals Rodeo
Nevada Preps
Betting

Sports Betting 101
Las Vegas Sportsbooks

Formula 1
Aces
Sports Columns

Ed Graney
Todd Dewey
Adam Hill

Poker
On TV/Radio
MMA and UFC
Golf

Business

Casinos & Gaming
Energy
Housing
Tourism
Real Estate Millions
Entrepreneurs
Business Press
Sheldon Adelson (1933-2021)

News

Education
Politics and Government

2025 Special Session
2025 NV Legislature
Nevada
Clark County
Las Vegas

Environment
Civil Courts
Nation and World
Science and Technology
News Columns

Road Warrior

Military

Investigations

What Are They Hiding?
Remembering Jeff German
Dangerous Driving
Police Accountability
Alpine Fire

Crime

Courts
Homicides
Robberies
Shootings
Homicide Tracker
Faces of Death Row

Opinion

Editorials
Letters
Opinion Columns

Debra J. Saunders
Michael Ramirez cartoons
Victor Joecks
Richard A. Epstein
Victor Davis Hanson

Drawing Board

Life

Comics
Puzzles
Health
Home and Garden
Travel

Live Well
Videos
Podcasts
RJ Awards
Obituaries

Today’s Obituaries
Submit an obit

Autos

Auto News
Dealer News
Classifieds
Place a Classified Ad

Homes

Provided Content
New Homes
Real Estate News
Classifieds
Place a Classified Ad

Jobs
Internships
Classifieds

Service Directory
Transportation
Merchandise
Legal Information
Real Estate Classifieds
Garage Sales
Pets
Rentals
FAQ
Place a Classified Ad
Contests and Promotions

Best of Las Vegas
Contests
TV Guide
Partnered Content

Business

Nevada State Bank
Verizon Business

Education

Touro University

Entertainment

PBR

Food

La Bonita

Health

P3 Health Partners

Home and Garden
Live Well
Local

Vegas Roots
City of Las Vegas
Find My Forever
Foster A Leader
Furever Friends
KINROSS Gold Star Student
Palms Experiential Suites
Prairie Fire
Star Nursery

Real Estate

Ignite Funding
IS Luxury – Discover Deluxe Desert
IS Luxury – Mastering Modern Luxury

Retail

D&R Diamonds

Travel

Black Desert Resort
Travel Nevada

Subscriptions
Newsletters
Contact Us
Advertise with Us

 

 

  

 
  

 

  

  

 

  

Home

>>

Crime

>>

Sex Crimes

Sex Crimes

Topgolf Las Vegas cases triggered national study on sexual harassment

A survey of 72 current and former Topgolf workers at 28 flagships found that a “pattern and practice of sexual harassment” was “pervading the entire corporation.”

Ciara Williams, Elba Servin and Brian Gomez are among a group of former Topgolf kitchen employees who spoke out publicly about alleged sexual harassment and abuse at the well-known sports entertainment company's Las Vegas flagship. (Las Vegas Review-Journal)Silvino Hinojosa, left, a former TopGolf Las Vegas sous chef and a sexual assault suspect, appears for a hearing at the Regional Justice Center in Las Vegas on Oct. 13, 2020. (Bizuayehu Tesfaye/Las Vegas Review-Journal) @bizutesfayeCiara Williams, a pastry chef who worked at Topgolf Las Vegas for nearly two years, sued her former employer and supervisor, Silvino Hinojosa, who was described in the lawsuit as a serial sexual predator. (Rachel Aston/Las Vegas Review-Journal) @rookie__raeMore StoriesTrafficking operations bring increase in arrests, citations, Las Vegas police sayCCSD teacher charged with sexually assaulting student makes court appearanceGreen Valley High School teacher faces sex assault charges, police sayHigh school football coach in Las Vegas pleads guilty in lewdness case 

By Rio Lacanlale

/
Las Vegas Review-Journal

					December 16, 2021 - 12:14 pm				

 

Updated December 16, 2021 - 12:42 pm

A survey of more than 70 current and former Topgolf employees at 28 flagships found that a “pattern and practice of sexual harassment” is “pervading the entire corporation,” according to a new report.
The 23-page report — titled “Stopgolf” — was published this month by One Fair Wage and Survivors Know following roughly nine months of research that was prompted by a group of former Topgolf Las Vegas kitchen employees who spoke out publicly against the company.
At least five individuals have accused former sous chef Silvino Hinojosa of sexual harassment or abuse. Four of them sued Topgolf, accusing the company of a “fratboy” culture that protected and enabled a “serial sexual predator.” The federal lawsuits were settled out of court last month, records show.
“This report would not exist but for them,” their attorney, James J. Lee, said. “I’m in awe of the personal courage it took for them to be willing to speak about something that was so difficult.”
Among the report’s key findings:
— Fifty-four percent of respondents reported being sexually harassed while working at Topgolf.
— Twenty-seven percent reported being sexually assaulted. That figure jumped to 50 percent for women of color younger than 50.
— Every Black, Indigenous and Hispanic woman younger than 50 who participated in the research reported being sexually harassed at work.
— Almost 55 percent of women reported increased harassment and/or hostility in the workplace during the COVID-19 pandemic.
The report also includes information gathered from 12 legal cases against the company, including the two lawsuits filed by Lee in Nevada, and cites reporting by the Review-Journal, the first news outlet to publish stories about the alleged working conditions at Topgolf Las Vegas, where sexual harassment and abuse ran rampant in the kitchen, according to court documents.
The most serious accusations detailed in the Review-Journal’s stories included claims that Hinojosa, the sous chef, lured prep cook Elba Servin to a vacant home and raped her in June 2016 and that he assaulted pastry chef Ciara Williams inside a walk-in freezer in Topgolf’s kitchen a year later. Their allegations led to criminal charges.
Williams — the first of Hinojosa’s accusers to speak out — released her first public statement Thursday since coming forward publicly with her allegations last October.
“To this day it hurts so badly,” Williams wrote in her statement to the Review-Journal, adding that she “was damaged, tainted, ashamed.”
The statement continued: “My goal for 2022 is to remind myself that even in the darkest parts of my life, there is always another day and that one day I will find my reason to go forward in life without the pain, nightmares, and constant feeling of hopelessness.”
‘It haunted me’
The news stories led other former Topgolf workers to contact the attorney representing Servin and Williams.
“It really all started with Ciara and Elba,” Lee said this week.
Among those to reach out was Samantha Velasquez-Knowles, whose employment at Topgolf Las Vegas in 2016 overlapped with that of Servin and Williams.
Her experience working at the Las Vegas flagship is detailed in the new report by One Fair Wage and Survivors Know.
According to the report, a kitchen manager followed her into a walk-in freezer, where he sexually assaulted her. Another colleague who witnessed the alleged assault “reported it to Topgolf’s Human Resources department,” the report states. Not long after, Velasquez-Knowles was fired in what she says was an act of retaliation by the company.
“I didn’t want to get the police involved because I was scared. I was just betrayed by authorities at Topgolf, and so I was too scared,” Velasquez-Knowles, now 26, told the Review-Journal. “Ever since then, it has haunted me. It haunted me for so long.”
By the time she came across one of the news stories this year, roughly four years had gone by since her termination. All that time, she said, she had “no idea” that others had experienced similar treatment and alleged abuse while working for the company.
“I started crying. I wanted to reach out to them,” she said, referring to Servin and Williams. “I wanted to cry with them, and also let them know something like this happened to me, too. And that they weren’t alone.”
In all, Velasquez-Knowles was employed by Topgolf for under 6 months. But the brief window of employment would dramatically alter her life’s course in the years that followed.
An aspiring chef, Velasquez-Knowles had attended culinary school prior to working at Topgolf with big dreams to one day open a restaurant or work as a private chef.
Topgolf, she said, “killed that” for her.
She and her son, who was 1 at the time of her termination, now live in Virginia, where she works in delivery services.
“I’ve taken a step back from the culinary field,” Velasquez-Knowles said.
But with help and support from Survivors Know, which has connected her and other former Topgolf employees to form a “solidarity circle,” Velasquez-Knowles said she’s started to imagine a future for herself in the culinary industry once again.
Maybe in a small cafe, she said, or a food truck.
“I want to open up a place where it’s safe,” she told the Review-Journal. “Where it’s fair.”
‘Not going away’
Topgolf did not respond to a request for comment about the recently published report, but in an April statement to the Review-Journal said the allegations “certainly are not representative or reflective of Topgolf, our associates or our culture.”
“Let us be clear that any type of harassment has absolutely no place at Topgolf, and we have robust policies and procedures in place that prohibit this type of behavior,” the statement continued.
JoEllen Chernow, co-director of Survivors Know, said neither of the organizations behind the new report had heard from Topgolf as of this week. But Chernow said she’s hopeful that will change once the organizations reach out to the company’s shareholders and investors with their findings.
“We’re not going away,” Chernow said, adding that “this is really an effort born out of survivors who really want to make Topgolf a place where people feel safe and where they can thrive.”
The report concludes with a list of “structural changes” that survey respondents said they wanted to see happen within the company, including the implementation of an ethics oversight committee and a monthly survey that would help the committee “identify and prevent harassment issues.”
One can read the full “Stopgolf” report at www.survivorsknow.org.
Meanwhile, Hinojosa, the sous chef at the center of the Las Vegas cases, remains jailed at the Clark County Detention Center as he awaits sentencing in an unrelated sexual assault case that prosecutors have said involved a 4-year-old victim.
As part of a deal with prosecutors, Hinojosa pleaded no contest in August to attempted sexual assault and child abuse. The plea bargain, upon sentencing next month, will resolve the two pending criminal cases stemming from the attacks on Servin and Williams.
Contact Rio Lacanlale at rlacanlale@reviewjournal.com or 702-383-0381. Follow @riolacanlale on Twitter.

Final StopGolf Report by Las Vegas Review-Journal

Posted on: Crime, Local, Local Las Vegas, Nation and World, News, Sex CrimesTagged: mc-crime

 

  

MOST READ

  
  

In case you missed it

    

 
Don't miss the big stories. Like us on Facebook.

    

  

   THE LATEST 

 

Trafficking operations bring increase in arrests, citations, Las Vegas police say 

By
Kevin J. Barr
/
RJ

December 3, 2025 - 11:30 amDecember 3, 2025 - 11:30 am

A multi-agency human trafficking operation led by the Metropolitan Police Department resulted in more arrests and citations than during the same period in 2024, the department said.

 

CCSD teacher charged with sexually assaulting student makes court appearance 

By
Casey Harrison
/
RJ

December 2, 2025 - 10:14 amDecember 2, 2025 - 5:09 pm

Anthony Coffield, 35, made a brief appearance in Henderson Justice Court, where his attorney waived the reading of charges against the teacher.

 
 

Green Valley High School teacher faces sex assault charges, police say 

By
Casey Harrison
/
RJ

December 1, 2025 - 1:53 pmDecember 1, 2025 - 2:28 pm

A Clark County School District teacher faces charges of sexual assault and making voluntary sexual conduct with a student, the Henderson Police Department said.

 
 

High school football coach in Las Vegas pleads guilty in lewdness case 

By
Noble Brigham
/
RJ

December 1, 2025 - 1:10 pmDecember 1, 2025 - 5:12 pm

Antwone Washington, a football coach and campus security officer at Valley High School, was indicted last year. He pleaded guilty to two felonies.

 
 

6 suspected child sex predators arrested in Las Vegas Valley, police say 

By
Caitlin Lilly
/
RJ

November 26, 2025 - 12:20 pmNovember 26, 2025 - 2:35 pm

Six people have been arrested in connection with a multi-agency operation that targeted child sex predators in the Las Vegas Valley, according to police.

 

Judge refuses to throw out child sex sting indictment against Israeli official 

By
Noble Brigham
/
RJ

November 24, 2025 - 12:26 pmNovember 24, 2025 - 12:26 pm

The judge said prosecutors met the standard of probable cause and presented evidence that could help him to the grand jury.

 

Las Vegas man sentenced for sex trafficking 16-year-old girl 

By
Spencer Levering
/
RJ

November 18, 2025 - 12:58 pmNovember 18, 2025 - 5:25 pm

Federal prosecutors said the 25-year-old man trafficked the girl in Las Vegas, Los Angeles and San Diego for nearly three weeks before he was arrested last October.

 

Henderson man dies after arrest tied to child sexual abuse images 

By
Casey Harrison
/
RJ

November 5, 2025 - 1:49 pmNovember 5, 2025 - 1:49 pm

A Henderson man who was arrested and charged last month with possessing and distributing child sexual abuse material has died.

 

19 arrested in Halloween sex offender compliance check operation 

By
Tony Garcia
/
RJ

November 4, 2025 - 9:39 amNovember 4, 2025 - 9:39 am

A multi-jurisdictional sex offender verification operation resulted in 19 arrests, according to a Metropolitan Police Department release.

 
 

Henderson man accused of uploading child sexual abuse images, police say 

By
Casey Harrison
/
RJ

October 28, 2025 - 5:05 pmOctober 29, 2025 - 11:24 pm

A man is facing charges after investigators say he uploaded abusive videos and images to a mobile cloud, according to the Henderson Police Department.

   
MORE STORIES

 

  

INFO & EDITIONSTraffic
Las Vegas Weather
e-Edition
Download our Apps
Contests and Promotions
Partnered Content
SOLUTIONSAdvertise with Us
Place a Classified Ad
FAQ
At The Scene
Store
Rights and Permissions
SUBSCRIPTIONSSubscriptions
Put The Paper On Hold
Report A Delivery Issue
Newsletter Sign Up
CONNECTIONSContact Us
Letter to Editor
News Tips and Press Releases
Work for LVRJ
Internships
AFFILIATE PUBLICATIONSneon
Best of Las Vegas
Business Press
Pahrump Valley Times
Boulder City Review
LV New Homes Guide
Vegas Nation
rj magazine
Lightning Digital
 

 

Las Vegas News Raiders News Las Vegas Sphere Oakland A's Move Las Vegas Casinos Las Vegas Crime Las Vegas Shows Sports Betting F1 Las Vegas Las Vegas Restaurants Lake Mead Las Vegas Weather
  
Copyright © 2019 Las Vegas Review-Journal, Inc. | Privacy Policy | Terms of Service | Cookie Preferences | Your Privacy Choices
Powered by WordPress.com VIP