US Department of Labor recovers $47K in back wages, damages for employees of Utah Chick-Fil-A franchisee, fines employer $187K | U.S. Department of Labor

      Skip to main content
    

An official website of the United States government.
Here’s how you know

Here’s how you know

The .gov means it’s official.
 Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a federal government site.
                        

The site is secure.
 The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely.
                        

U.S. Department of Labor

FAQ
Contact Us

Menu

Search

 submenu

TOPICS

Back

Topics

Disability Resources

Disaster Recovery Assistance

Elaws

Equal Employment Opportunity

Evidence

Grants

Guidance Search

Health Plans and Benefits

Hiring

Registered Apprenticeship

International Labor Issues

Job Corps

Labor Relations

Leave Benefits

Other Benefits

Posters

Retirement Plans, Benefits and Savings

Spanish-Language Resources

Termination

Training

Unemployment Insurance

Veterans Employment

Wages

Whistleblower Protection

Work Hours

Workers' Compensation

Workplace Safety and Health

Youth & Young Worker Employment

AGENCIES

Back

Agencies

Office of the Secretary (OSEC)

Administrative Review Board (ARB)

Benefits Review Board (BRB)

Bureau of International Labor Affairs (ILAB)

Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS)

Employee Benefits Security Administration (EBSA) 

Employees' Compensation Appeals Board (ECAB)

Employment and Training Administration (ETA)

Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA)

Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)

Office of Administrative Law Judges (OALJ)

Office of Congressional & Intergovernmental Affairs (OCIA)

Office of Disability Employment Policy (ODEP)

Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP)

Office of Inspector General (OIG)

Office of Labor-Management Standards (OLMS)

Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration and Management (OASAM)

Office of the Assistant Secretary for Policy (OASP)

Office of the Chief Financial Officer (OCFO)

Office of the Solicitor (SOL)

Office of Workers' Compensation Programs (OWCP)

Ombudsman for the Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program (EEOMBD)

Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) 

Veterans' Employment and Training Service (VETS)

Wage and Hour Division (WHD)

Women's Bureau (WB)

FORMS

ABOUT US

Back

About Us

Agencies and Programs

Meet the Secretary of Labor

Leadership Team

Budget, Performance and Planning

Calendar

Careers at DOL

History

Privacy Program

Recursos en Español

NEWS

Back

News

Newsroom

News Releases

Blog

Economic Data from the Department of Labor

FAQ

Search

Breadcrumb

Home

Newsroom

News Releases

Wage and Hour Division

Please note: As of 01/20/2025, information in some news releases may be out of date or not reflect current policies.

News Release
US Department of Labor recovers $47K in back wages, damages  for employees of Utah Chick-Fil-A franchisee, fines employer $187K
DM Holding Co. LLC violated child labor laws, denied overtime
ST. GEORGE, UT – Federal investigators have assessed $187,467in civil penalties for employing 237 minors in violation of child labor provisions  and recovered nearly $47,000 in back wages and liquidated damages for 101 employees at two St. George Chick-Fil-A franchise restaurants that required workers to clock out for every break under 20 minutes without compensation, the U.S. Department of Labor announced today.The department’s Wage and Hour Division assessed the restaurants’ operator, DM Holding Co. LLC with the  penalties for violations of the Fair Labor Standards Act child labor provisions. Division investigators determined the employer illegally allowed 14- and 15-year-old employees to work past permitted hours, and for too many hours in a day.The employer also incurred overtime violations by not including the missing break time when paying time and one-half the regular rate-of- pay for hours over 40 in a workweek. “We know that good and safe jobs can give young workers meaningful experience and training, but employers must ensure they follow all federal labor laws,” explained Wage and Hour Division District Director Kevin Hunt in Salt Lake City. “Employers must also comply with federal laws that protect workers’ rights to their full wages and make sure that young employees’ work experience does not interfere with their education. Child labor violations and the failure to pay for all hour of work as well as overtime had costly consequences for this Chick-Fil-A franchisee in St. George.”Learn more about the Wage and Hour Division, including a search tool to use if you think you may be owed back wages collected by the division. The division protects workers regardless of immigration status and can communicate with workers in more than 200 languages.The YouthRules! initiative promotes positive and safe work experiences for teens by providing information about protections for young workers to youth, parents, employers, and educators. Through this initiative, the U.S. Department of Labor and its partners promote good and safe jobs that help prepare young workers to enter the workforce. The Wage and Hour Division has also published Seven Child Labor Best Practices for Employers to help employers comply with the law. Learn more about the Fair Labor Standards Act’s child labor provisions. 

Agency
Wage and Hour Division

Date
September 28, 2023

Release Number
23-1447-DEN

Media Contact: Juan Rodriguez

Phone Number
972-850-4709

Email
rodriguez.juan@dol.gov

Media Contact: Chauntra Rideaux

Phone Number
972-850-4710

Email
rideaux.chauntra.d@dol.gov

Share This

More News Releases

PreviousDepartment of Labor announces findings of impact inspections  at 14 US mines; identifies 246 violations of safety, health standards 

Next UpUS Department of Labor publishes fact sheet outlining protections  against discrimination, bias in federally funded programs, activities

Scroll to Top 

Agencies

Forms

Guidance Search

FAQ

About DOL

News

 

U.S. Department of Labor

200 Constitution Ave NW
Washington, DC 20210
1-866-4-USA-DOL
1-866-487-2365
www.dol.gov 

Federal Government

White House

Disaster Recovery Assistance

DisasterAssistance.gov

USA.gov

No Fear Act Data

U.S. Office of Special Counsel

Labor Department

About DOL

Guidance Search

Español

Office of Inspector General

A to Z Index

About The Site

Freedom of Information Act

Privacy & Security Statement

Disclaimers

Important Website Notices

Plug-Ins Used on DOL.gov

Accessibility Statement

Connect With DOL

Facebook

X

Instagram

LinkedIn

Youtube

Important Website Notices
Privacy & Security Statement