Warren Buffett-backed BYD Plunges on Pollution Probe

 

Home
AF Indexes
Markets
Carbon
Fintech
Energy
Transport
Health
Regions
Insights
AF TV

Type to search

 

Newsletter

Home
AF Indexes

Global Fintech Leaders Index
AF China Bond 50 Index
GGETT Leaders Index
China Electric Vehicle Index

Markets

Bonds News
Capital Markets News 
Commodities News
ESG News
ETFs News

Carbon
Fintech
AI News
Blockchain News
Crypto News
Cyber Security News
Payments News

Energy
Mining News
New Energy News
Oil & Gas News
Rare Earths News

Transport
Aviation News
Electric Vehicles News
New Energy Vehicles News
Space News

Health
Regions
World News
Asia News
China News
India News
Central Asia News
North Asia News
Oceania News

Insights
Market Insights
Fintech Insights
Opinion

AF TV

NEWS
ANALYSIS
INDEXES

 

  

 
China 
Warren Buffett-backed BYD Plunges on Pollution Probe

May 10, 2022

 Hong Kong-listed BYD shares opened with a 10% dip after authorities launched an investigation into pollution claims and alleged health issues near its Changsha city factory

  BYD has joined many other Chinese brands in a price war started by Tesla. 

 
Shares of China’s EV sales champion BYD plunged 14% in Hong Kong on Tuesday after local authorities launched a probe into air pollution claims over the company’s manufacturing facility in Changsha city, capital of south-central China’s Hunan province.
After a public holiday on Monday, Hong Kong-listed BYD shares opened with a 10% dip compared with last Friday and plunged as much as 14% before closing with a 6% decline at HK$215 ($27.4). The company’s shares listed in Shenzhen plunged 4% in the first trading hour, but closed at 233 yuan ($34.6) with a 0.3% increase.
The EV giant helmed by Wang Chuanfu, who was named one of The Green 30 for 2020 by Bloomberg due to BYD electric taxi’s contribution to CO2 emission reductions in Shenzhen, is ironically now involved in an alleged pollution scandal. 
 
Also on AF: Tesla Faces Shortage of EV Parts, Halts Production in Shanghai
 
BYD is backed by US billionaire Warren Buffett, with Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Energy Company indirectly owning a 7.7% stake in the Chinese automaker as of late April. 
Residents near the BYD factory in Yuhua District in Changsha had complained over the past month about a pungent smell coming from the site, saying the smell is so strong at night that it wakes people up, according to a report by the Chinese magazine China Philanthropist on Saturday. 
About half of students from a class in a nearby primary school claim to have suffered nosebleeds within the past two months, adults have experienced nausea and persistent coughs, and residents who purchased testing devices detected indoor total volatile organic compounds (TVOCs) values that surpassed safety standards, the report said. 
Last Friday, residents from several communities gathered at the entrances to the BYD factory to stage a protest. 
But BYD insisted that the factory complies with China’s emission standards, saying on the Twitter-like Weibo platform on Saturday that it would seek legal actions against people who spread rumours that emissions from the factory had caused nosebleeds.
 
Some BYD Production Lines Seen Being Suspended
Sources told local media on Tuesday that some production lines at the BYD factory have been suspended for “rectification.” The Changsha government said on Sunday, on its official WeChat account, that the authorities had dispatched a task force to investigate the pollution claims at the BYD factory in Yuhua District.
Residents near BYD’s factory have attributed the plant’s increasing pollution to BYD’s surging sales that have pushed the factory to run day and night. A resident with the alias Liu Jun told news portal iFeng.com that the lights of the factory were regularly on until 4:30am over the last two months.
BYD sold 580,000 EV units last year topping the list in China, according to data from China Passenger Car Association. In the first four months of this year, it sold 392,400 EVs, more than 50% of its whole 2021 output. 
The Yuhua factory, set to roll out its Phase II production set-up later this month, will become BYD’s largest production base in China with an output of 600,000 EVs a year, according to the communist party’s local newspaper, the Hunan Daily. The factory’s production output more than tripled year-over-year to 62,500 units in the first quarter. 
Reports published by the local ecological environment authorities show that the Yuhua factory had been accused of emitting harmful pollutants that were causing respiratory problems for nearby residents in 2019 and 2021.
 

By Iris Hong

 
Read more:
China’s BYD Posts 241% Profit Rise on EV, Battery Demand
China Regulator Approves IPO for Chip Unit of Carmaker BYD
 

	 
	Tags: BYD

Iris Hong 
 Iris Hong is a senior reporter for the China desk, and has special interests in fintech, e-commerce, AI, and electric vehicles. She began her career in 2006 and worked for Interfax News Agency and for PayPal before joining Asia Financial in July 2020. You can reach out to Iris on Twitter at @Iris23360981 

You Might also Like

  

China's EV Subsidy Era May End As Exports Boom, Priorities Shift

  

Chinese Firms May Soon Need To Transfer Tech To Invest In Europe

  

China’s BYD Sees Sales in the UK Jump by 880% - BBC

  

BYD Cuts Production 2 Months In A Row For First Time In 5 Years

China  

  

 US Lawmakers Move to Block Trump Easing China Chip Curbs
 Vishakha Saxena 05 Dec 2025

 

  
 Nvidia CEO Says US Export Curbs on AI Chips is ‘Flawed’ Policy
21 May 2025

  
 China Chip Designer Moore Threads Soars 500% in Shanghai IPO
05 Dec 2025

  
 China Says It’ll Approve Rare Earth Licences For ‘Civilian Use’
04 Dec 2025

Popular News

  
 Is China Finally Set to Rein in its Huge Industrial Overcapacity?

															22 Jul 2025
														

  
 YouTube Cuts 10,000 China, Russia Propaganda Videos – CNBC

															22 Jul 2025
														

  
 Central Banks Unprepared For Climate-Driven Labour Shocks: LSE

															23 Jul 2025
														

  
 Beijing Not Letting Two China-Born US Citizens Leave the Country

															22 Jul 2025
														

  
 Trump’s Dealings With Pakistan Has India Slowing Tariff Talks

															21 Jul 2025
														

ABOUT AF

Asia Financial News Group
Asia Financial Index Group
Capital Link International
Ads and Partnerships
About Us

RESOURCES

Index Tools
Newsletters
Your AF
Careers
Contact Us

LEGAL + PRIVACY

Copyright
Legal & Privacy
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Cookies

Must Read

  
 US Lawmakers Move to Block Trump Easing China Chip Curbs
World

  
 Nvidia CEO Says US Export Curbs on AI Chips is ‘Flawed’ Policy
World

  
 China Says It’ll Approve Rare Earth Licences For ‘Civilian Use’
World

Tags

	China Bonds US

Categories

AF Indexes
Markets
Fintech
Energy
Transport
Health
Regions
Opinion

DISCLAIMER

Asia Financial is owned by Capital Link International Holdings Ltd,
902, Wilson House 19-27 Wyndham Street, Central, Hong Kong. www.capitallinkintl.com