Woman wrongfully detained in B&Q agrees out of Court settlement – Iain Gould – Actions Against the Police Solicitor

			Skip to content		

Iain Gould – Actions Against the Police Solicitor
The blog of a police misconduct claims lawyer.

Menu

Home
About Me

In the News

What are Actions Against the Police?

Why I Write About Actions Against the Police

Case Reports
Referrals
Contact Me
Blog
 

Woman wrongfully detained in B&Q agrees out of Court settlement 

In October 2021, Rachel attended a B&Q store along with her 1-year-old son. Rachel selected a few items, which she paid for, and then went to exit the store with her purchases in her son’s pushchair.
However, as Rachel was exiting the store, she was accosted by a security guard employed by Mitie Security. The guard prevented Rachel from exiting the store, aggressively claimed that he had seen her put several goods in her handbag without paying for them, and loudly accused her of being a “shop lifter”.
Rachel was understandably very distressed by the guard’s false accusations, especially as this was occurring immediately inside the store and was witnessed by a large number of people. Rachel calmly attempted to explain her innocence; however, the guard claimed that he had seen her put items into her handbag on CCTV and demanded that she open the bag.
Rachel was scared and intimidated by the guard’s behaviour, so much so that she felt obliged to comply with his demands. Rachel’s handbag, her purchases and her son’s pushchair were then searched; nothing stolen was found. Nevertheless, the guard continued to insist that Rachel must have something hidden on her person and demanded that Rachel empty her pockets as well.
Rachel was increasingly concerned at the guard’s aggressive demeanour and asked him to summon a store manager. The guard then pointed to a nearby member of B&Q staff and stated that she was the manager. Rachel asked the manager what policy the guard was operating under, that allowed him to humiliate and harass customers in such a manner?
Sadly, the manager merely reiterated the guard’s false allegations that Rachel had stolen items. They continued to refuse to allow Rachel to leave the store and instead insisted that she accompany them to a side office where, they claimed, they would produce CCTV evidence that would prove that she was a “liar and a thief.” As Rachel was being escorted to the office the guard remarked that “You people are always stealing here”. Once at the office they refused to allow Rachel inside and she had to wait outside, fearful that she would be pursued and manhandled if she tried to leave, albeit secure in the knowledge of her own innocence.
Shortly thereafter, after having indeed viewed the CCTV footage, the store manager and the guard opened the office door. The guard offered Rachel an insincere and dismissive apology, acknowledging that she had not in fact stolen anything. He further stated that he had stopped Rachel because he had seen her look in her handbag whilst in the store. Rachel remonstrated with him and questioned why he had lied about seeing her stealing. However, having only moments before taken Rachel ‘prisoner’ and made her listen to all his slurs and accusations, the guard was now uninterested in her, and went away without any word.
Rachel is of Black Caribbean descent and could not understand why she, in particular, was stopped for such an innocuous activity – simply looking in her handbag – other than being racially profiled by the guard. Rachel questioned the manager about this and the meaning of the guard’s earlier comment about “You people…”; however, the manager was unable to offer any explanation for his behaviour. Rachel requested the manager’s and the guard’s name, but she only identified herself by her first name and the guard as “Mitie” (i.e. the Security Company he worked for) refusing to provide any other details.
Rachel subsequently submitted a complaint to B&Q, who apologised for the incident and offered a “gift voucher” as a gesture of good will.
Rachel, a person of the utmost good character, was deeply upset at the accusation of theft that had been levelled against her. Furthermore, she felt extremely humiliated that the incident had taken place in full view of members of the public, B&Q staff, and her son. Rachel is a teacher and was recognised by a member of the public during the incident, causing damage to her reputation in the community, as she was later questioned about the incident by a former pupil.
After Rachel instructed me to act on her behalf, I presented a letter of claim to Mitie Security seeking damages on behalf of Rachel for false imprisonment, assault and battery and trespass to goods.
Following the incident, Rachel was deeply traumatised by what had happened to her. She experienced sleep disturbance, specifically nightmares, waking in a panic and being unable to return to sleep. She experienced racing thoughts and jumpiness and felt particularly anxious in shops. This anxiety was naturally exacerbated if she saw security personnel.  She was also fearful of being again accused of theft and of her children being removed by Social Services. 
Although Mitie Security failed to either admit or deny liability for the actions of their Security Guard, they agreed to a an out-of-court settlement for substantial damages.
The name of my client has been changed.
Share this:
Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
LinkedIn

Click to share on X (Opens in new window)
X

Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Facebook

Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
Reddit

Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)
Email
More
Click to print (Opens in new window)
Print

Click to share on Pocket (Opens in new window)
Pocket
Like Loading... 

Terms and Conditions
Cookies Policy
Privacy Policy

 

Iain Gould is a solicitor who specialises in civil actions against the police.

Contact Me Here:

Name(required)

Warning

Email(required)

Warning

Phone(required)

Warning

What happened?(required)

Warning

How did you hear about me?

Warning

  
		By clicking 'Contact Me' you are agreeing to the Terms of the Privacy policy (https://iaingould.co.uk/privacy-policy/)

Warning.

 Contact MESubmitting form

Δ

Follow Blog via Email

Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts the law and civil actions against the police by email. By doing so you agree to the terms of our privacy policy. (Read it here www.iaingould.co.uk/privacy-policy.)

						Email Address:					
 

 
						Follow					

					Join 1,090 other subscribers				

Google reviews
Trustpilot Reviews

			Search for:		

		Search	

Click on “My Tweets” to follow me on X:My Tweets 

Home
About Me

In the News

What are Actions Against the Police?

Why I Write About Actions Against the Police

Case Reports
Referrals
Contact Me
Blog
 

Iain Gould – Actions Against the Police Solicitor
Blog at WordPress.com.

 
								Subscribe							

		Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. 
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here:
				
			Cookie Policy		

%d