Worker killed on cheese production line, company fined $150,000 | Canadian Occupational Safety

CONTINUE TO SITE

CONTINUE TO SITE

NEWS

News
Features
Opinion
Profiles
US News

TOPICS

Building and Construction
Energy and Resources
Environment
ESG / Risk Management
Government and Public Sector
Leadership and culture
Manufacturing
Occupational hygiene
OHS Law & Legislation
Psychological safety
Safety and PPE
Technology
Utilities

RESOURCES

Premium content
White papers
Video
Products
Digital editions
COS Talk

EVENTS

BEST IN SAFETY

SUBSCRIBE

ADVERTISE

News

Worker killed on cheese production line, company fined $150,000

                        Machine did not have a guard to prevent access to pinch point
                    

A worker at Saputo's facility in Trenton, Ont, died in 2016 while using a machine without a guard on an obvious pinch point.  Google Street View 

03 May 2018

Share

Saputo Dairy Products has been fined $150,000, plus a 25 per cent victim fine surcharge, for the death of a worker by a cheese-cutter machine. 

A worker at the company’s facility in Trenton, Ont. was assigned to work as a drier operator in the parmesan department and was experienced in this area, having worked there for a number of years. In this task the worker was alone, loading and emptying the drier with various cheese blocks.

For the most part, this job requires placing full uncut 19-kilogram blocks of uncut cheese onto the drier conveyor to be placed in the drier. Occasionally the task requires cutting some of those 19-kg blocks into smaller pieces. Cutting is done with a large manually operated rocker knife.

Workers have reported that the rocker knife was often difficult to use and took considerable effort to cut some blocks of cheese. As a result, one of the supervisors indicated to workers that they could use a machine called the 640 cutter, located nearby. This machine consists of a conveyor upon which 640-pound blocks of cheese are cut.

Blocks are placed on the conveyor where the cheese is cut horizontally, then through a guillotine-style cutter to further cut the blocks vertically. Although the employer took the position that the 640 cutter was only to be used for those large blocks of cheese, it appears to have been common practice to use it to also cut the 19-kg blocks of parmesan.

The guillotine-style vertical cutter of the 640 consists of a lower stationary bar and a moving upper bar. This bar drops at the rate of 2 inches every second, taking 17 seconds to lower completely. At its lowest point, there is clearance of 2.5 inches between the bars. There is no guard at this obvious pinch point and no automated lockout or light curtain barrier to prevent access to the pinch point.

On Dec. 15, 2016, the worker was found deceased by other workers in the closed pinch point of the 640 cutter. There were no witnesses to explain how the worker would come to be in that position. The worker was found kneeling on the end of the conveyor belt with hands on either side of the framework. Using the 640 cutter for 19-kg blocks of parmesan would not require the worker to be in that position, and where the worker was found would have provided no advantage to machine use.

The pinch point created by the moving bar and the stationary bar should have been guarded to prevent access. As a result, Saputo is guilty of a violation of Section 25 of Ontario Regulation 851 (the Industrial Establishments Regulation) thereby committing an offence under section 25(1)(c) of the Occupational Health and Safety Act.

Source: Ontario Minister of Labour

FREE NEWSLETTER

            The FREE Canadian Occupational Safety newsletter keeps you up to date on news and analysis about the world of occupational health and safety.
            Please enter your email address below to subscribe.
        

SIGN UP

LATEST NEWS

Study finds construction safety gaps in labour, training and PPE

Aviation safety findings underline drum fuelling risks after crash

Worker dies in Quebec boat explosion

Worker killed by vehicle at Oro-Medonte landfill

FREE NEWSLETTER

            Subscribe to the Canadian Occupational Safety newsletter to get the must-read news & insights in your inbox.
        

Sign up

Newsletter
Digital editions
Authors
External contributors

Copyright © 2025 KM Business Information Canada Ltd.

Advertise
About us
Contact us
Privacy
Cookie Policy
Consent Preferences
Terms of Use
Sitemap
RSS